25/04/2018Headers
Arena: Where Sledgends Are Born



            



            One thought on “Arena: Where Sledgends Are Born”

Add yours










Sledging! A simple word to explain the practice of a  player seeking to gain an advantage by verbally intimidating an  opposing player. What happens when the audience gets involved in the  same? The trash talk is often quite entertaining, but where do you draw  the line? Where is the full stop?
The below article is based on my views and understanding of the recent issue.
I completely agree with the age-old saying; what happens on the 
field, stays on the field. But when the home audience keeps hurling 
abuses at the opponents, it becomes off the field and that is a very 
unsportsmanlike thing to do. This kind of a thing is definitely not in 
the spirit of the game and it gives a bad impression of our college to 
the teams playing.
England captain Douglas Jardine – who was public 
enemy No.1 in Australia during the tense Bodyline series – complained to
 counterpart Bill Woodfull about Australian players swearing at him, to 
which Woodfull replied: “Now which of you bastards called this bastard a
 bastard?”
Shane Warne was bowling to Sourav Ganguly,
 and Ganguly let a few go through to the keeper without offering a shot,
 Warne decided to remind him why they were all there; “Hey mate, the 
crowd didn’t pay their money to watch you let balls go. They came here 
to see this little bloke [pointing to Sachin Tendulkar at the 
non-striker’s end] play shots.”
Now this is what sledging is. What happened during the recent 
incident is something very different. We are aware of bottles being 
thrown at players even internationally, but should it ever come to that?
 You can disqualify players, give them cards, but what will you do to 
the audience? The audience cannot behave in barbaric ways, negligent of 
its attitude and charm its way into entertainment at the cost of a team 
it is hosting. To be honest, the crowd better behave, not just because 
they are being told to do so, but in sheer respect for an individual who
 has come here in spirit of sportsmanship. At this point, it is better 
to forget about the incidents that have taken place; but we should take a
 lesson from this fiasco and mend our ways accordingly.
Article by Vinith Bhandari
Originally published on BITS Chronicles on 18th February, 2018.

            

Arena, Campus News, Fests
Arena 2018






