25/02/2023Headers
Do movies succeed at actually replicating the real world?



            











Movies have been an integral part of society, and the type of movies one watches can define their character to a significant extent. Thus, movie creators have to take intensive care and have a moulding approach to the movie they are making. Most care in the world can still leave the sculpture with indiscretions if the sculptor is biased with his own thoughts subconsciously.
There’s this thing called The Bechdel Test. It tells us how male-dominated the movie-creating sector of our society is and is used to analyze the movie from a feminist’s point of view.
To pass The Bechdel Test, a movie has to pass three conditions:
It doesn’t seem like great odds for a movie to fail this test. But in reality, 40% of the movies actually fail the test. Even films with no clear masculine motives, like Toy Story, fail this test.
It was noted that the chances of a movie passing this test was inversely proportional to the number of male writers in the film. And it is not necessary that if a film does not pass Bechdel’s Test, it is made by a misogynist team of people. Even some of the films made by top filmmakers like Harvey Weinstein and Bruce Berman fail this test.
It has been seen that European studios are far more progressive than the US. Some of the biggest studios in the US disappoint in the most peculiar ways. For example – 53% of Warner Bros. movies fail the test, 54% of Columbia movies fail the test, and 55% of Dreamworks movies fail the test.
It is actually the result of the default subconscious stereotype that males are more dominating than females in real-world society. So, some creators don’t even notice that the movie they are making is not an exact replica of the real world. However, an obvious solution was given for the problem. This was to hire more diverse and woman employees in the movie-making business, which is largely male-dominated. 
There are many small details that are lacking from modern movies, which is stopping the movie business from being ‘ideal’. Though subtle, we are a significant mile away from it because films are still struggling to simulate real life in its purest form.

            








