01/04/2022Headers
Food Stalls Reviews – Orbe Novo 2022



            












Rating – ⅖ 
With very little to offer to vegetarians, this stall doesn’t bring much to the table, quite literally. The savory food list seems unappealing at first. The menu consists of monotonous dishes like fried rice, noodles, and chicken wings resulting in the stall not quite standing out among other stalls selling burgers, pizza, or chole bhature. 
Non-vegetarians can find a change in flavor at different times of the day. Their reviews are mostly okayish, with dissatisfaction mainly regarding the lack of accompaniments like dipping sauce for the wings. Vegetarians didn’t bother to come back after eating their first dish, with the reviews being comparable to that of regular mess snack material along with a few complaints of the dishes not even being cooked completely. Prices follow the usual pattern of being absurdly high with little generosity in the quantity of noodles provided. 
Rating: 3/5 
You’ll find this pretty little blue food truck in a corner serving a menu with items such as burgers, hotdogs, pizza, pasta nachos, etc. The fish and chips felt preserved and bland. Ridiculously overpriced at Rs.180 the burgers and chicken tenders were greasy and moderate on a taste evaluation. The burger was decent, significantly better than the ones we are treated to at our in-house campus eateries. The nachos have gotten quite a bad reputation amongst a lot of people and it seems to be a dish best avoided. If you plan on making a stop at this stall, do make sure you’ve got quite some time because quick service isn’t guaranteed always.
Rating – 3.5/5 
With only sugarcane juice to offer, this stall has received mixed reviews. It seems that on the very first day, the stall was doing better in terms of taste, and quantity. It was served not cold enough given the fact that it’s really dreadfully hot these days. On the second day the stall received complaints about the juice being extra sweet, which includes adding both artificial and natural sugars. Like the rest of the stalls barring some exception(s), the juice served here is also a little tad more expensive than it should be.
Rating: 3/5
Another stall with very mixed reviews. While some people find the shawarma to be a pretty good purchase, there have been multiple reviews of the shawarma just being a blob of mayonnaise and stuffed chicken. Despite being labeled “special” there’s nothing special about the shawarma, with a complete lack of veggies that most standard shawarma places offer. If you’re someone with not so high standards for shawarma, you might like this place, however a common complaint is that the shawarma is very small for the Rs.150 you pay for it. 
Rating : ⅗
Mr. Batidos offers you smoothies, thickshakes and softies, clearly an appealing menu on a sunny March afternoon. That being said, although all the items on the menu do well when it comes to an evaluation of taste, every single item is exorbitantly overpriced making you question your purchases here. 
Rating : ⅕
The stall doesn’t really offer you much, with a very narrow menu with your parathas with 2-3 curry options. Inspite of the limited menu, they still seem to be out of stock in certain items very often. The taste while not terrible, hasn’t exactly gotten very positive reviews with complaints about the gravies being too greasy. This stall definitely does not make it to the popular list.
Rating : ⅗
 Contrary to its name, the only thing on their menu here is a wide array of coloured mojitos. The mojitos were the perfect remedy in this scorching heat. The strawberry Volcano, mint mojito and virgin mojito were some items on the menu that have been quite popular and definitely taste great. However, when it comes to value for money, it’s an absolute disappointment. Each mojito is Rs. 100 and the quantity is very  disappointing with the cup being tiny in the first place and then half of it being filled with ice. If not for the trashy quantity, this place would definitely be a stall you should visit. 
Rating : 5/5
This stall is definitely the most affordable stall we have, having the best value for money. The truck offers you’re standard dosa truck options like paneer dosa, cheese dosa etc. at again the standard prices you get them for even in your streetside food stalls. The service time is quick enough and if you’re a dosa lover, you definitely should make a stop here.
Rating : 2.5/5
This stall is one that has gotten the most mixed reviews. Uptil yesterday late afternoon, the pizza although overpriced, had gained quite the crowd and praise for their “authentic” woodfire pizza. The crust was decently good, toppings were falling apart but were in abundance and the sauce could be a little better.  However, after said late afternoon, there have been multiple complaints about the crust of the pizza looking burnt and tasting like raw dough, losing its popularity by a large scale within just one evening.
Rating : ⅗
It offers a plethora of toppings and dressings garnished on fries in a 200 – 250 rupees range. They are served crispy hot with tantalizing options such as garlicky cheese fries and they have got something for the non vegetarians too.The quantity is pretty decent so you needn’t worry about leaving hungry. The main negative is the price point, the price is definitely high for the quantity you get.
Rating : 3/5
Despite its name it has a lot to offer from wings, nuggets, wraps, fries, sandwiches, burgers, slushies. So a pretty standard menu save for pizza which is mentioned in the stall’s name but for a silly reason not sold. The slushy is by far their most popular item in this sweltering summer with blueberry being a fan favourite. It’s got mostly positive reviews from some finding the slushy to be quite refreshing to a few finding it to have a chalky aftertaste. The burgers and wings are satisfactory with the vegetarian options being a let down. However the servings aren’t that filling with the prices being on the high end as per usual. Other than this stall needing a rebranding, it’s a decent stall to pay a visit.
Rating : ⅘
This stall not only offers you ice cream, but a whole experience purchasing it with the acrobatics performed while serving you the ice cream. At rs.100 per ice cream, while not exactly affordable, it’s still decently priced for the ice cream you get.
Rating : 4/5
By far one of the most affordable stalls for Orbe Novo, Bon Appétit by the Cooking Club of BPHC offers different varieties of fries ranging from 50-80, pasta, pancakes, ice pops and burgers at 100/120. They also serve pancakes at the price of Rs.60 which are fluffy and pretty good. Sometimes a few items may be out of stock, but the stall is a must visit. The wait time is decent enough at most times but once in a while you may have to wait a bit. Overall the taste and the value of the food make it one of the better stalls we have here. 
Rating : 3.5/5
Kathi rolls, twisters and lime soda offers various varieties of rolls which include egg roll, shezwan chicken roll and many more. And if you are a veggie, you don’t need to worry about it. You will find rolls like dum aloo roll, chole roll and paneer roll as well. Something will definitely suit your taste. While it has been slightly overpriced, the service has been quick and people have been satisfied with the taste. However, the soda they offer has not received an equally positive feedback. They offer many varieties of lime soda but have complaints of being too diluted and sweet. 
Rating : ⅗
With the summer wave in full blow, all of us are craving something cold and refreshing. A popsicle sounds like just the remedy for that now, doesn’t it? House of Pops offers you just that, popsicles to sooth you from the scorching heat. However, with it’s not so wide range of flavours and exorbitant price of Rs.100 per popsicle, the stall doesn’t live up to your expectations . If you do choose to make a visit to this stall, make sure to avoid the grape popsicle, because that’s a texture journey you do not want to take. The lemit popsicle has gained quite some traction and is the most popular item on their menu, with other flavours being watermelon, pineapple, oreo, mango etc.
Rating : ⅗ 
Kulcha Parotha’s Chaat offers few of the popular street foods from the country. It has quick and quality service. The chaats here don’t taste good and are not recommended. The Pav Bhaji here is priced at Rs 120. It may not be worth the price but there are other items here worth to try so wait.The next item on the list is Chole Bhature. The chole has a tolerable spiciness which will tickle your taste buds. The quantity of chole served is less but you can never get enough of a delectable dish can you? There is no comprise quality wise. Overall it has a good taste and is recommended. The Pani Puri here tastes decent and can be tried by Pani Puri lovers who just can’t get enough of it.
17. Bitsian Pleasant Dum Biryani:
Rating – ⅗
From the name of the stall, the menu is pretty obvious. The chicken biryani costs Rs.160 and comes with a side of salad and raita, slightly overpriced just like most stalls here. The quantity overall is decent enough, however the chicken quantity is pretty bad, it being comparable to the quantity in hotspot’s dum biryani.
18. The Ice gola stall
Rating : 4.5/5
Now there isn’t much that could go wrong with your standard ice golas, right. At the price of Rs.50, these ice golas are the perfect combination of affordable and refreshing in the scorching heat. The only complaint this stall could receive is it’s lack of variety in flavours, but the standard flavours they offer still make it a place you should definitely visit.
19. Spicy Twister
Rating : 3.5/5
Nothing much could go wrong with your standard potato twister. Priced at Rs.100 and with a complete lack of toppings, it’s not the most appealing stall out there.If you’re craving a potato twister, go for it, again there’s not much that could go wrong. 

            








