25/08/2019Headers
H-Rep Manifestos: Expectations v/s Reality



            











Every bhawan on campus has a hostel representative or H-Rep, who is elected by the residents of their respective bhawans. While this post can be held by students of any year, it is especially relevant to first-year students. It is the only opportunity for a fresher to be a member of the Student Union Council (SUC). The elections are conducted by the Election Commission early on in the first semester, usually by the end of August. This gives freshmen their first taste of student politics, in their college life. The H-Rep elections also allow students, including the ones not contesting, to become familiar with the election procedure on campus, all the way from nomination, to the actual voting and announcement of results. One of the most significant steps in the process is the release of the candidates’ manifesto. The manifesto comprises of a list of targets and goals the candidate promises to achieve during their tenure if they are elected into the post. 
Most candidates, especially those who are new to the campus (and the rest of the general body) assume that hostel representatives have a say in all the factors affecting hostel life. As a result, hostel representative manifestos are often overly ambitious and cover a wide array of fields, that does not, in reality, fall under the jurisdiction of a student representative. 
The actual role and extent of the power of a hostel representative are outlined in the Student Union Constitution [1]. According to the Constitution, the hostel representative is primarily responsible for the inventory management of their respective Bhawans and call for meets in their Bhawans to address the concerns and grievances of the students in their respective Bhawans. Apart from this, they can make recommendations for any additional equipment or infrastructure changes to the President, supervise informal events/competitions that happen in the hostels and act as advisories to the cultural and sports secretaries during Renaissance and RIXA respectively. 
Since there is currently no existing formal system by which hostel representatives are held accountable for their promises, the infeasibility of these manifestos is never highlighted. Additionally, many candidates, especially those who are new to the system refer to previous manifestos as a basis for their own manifestos, and thus, a vicious cycle of misinformation and false promises is formed.
In this article, we will be highlighting some of the most common points that were present in H-Rep manifestos and analysing whether they come under the purview of the H-Rep and their feasibility. The data that we have used is from the manifestos of the H-Rep candidates for the 2018-19 academic year. A total of 23 candidates stood for the hostel elections that year in the 11 bhawans. 
Despite these being some of the most common points, many of these have not been fulfilled. In some cases, this was unfortunately due to the lack of power held by the representative, currently provided in the constitution. If you see a manifesto point that has been repeated time and time again over the years, try to think about why it has not been implemented to date. If you are a nominee, find out what was done before and think about what you can do differently before including it on your manifesto.If you are a voter, look and what the different candidates have to offer and always ask questions. 
It is of note, however , that while H-Reps might have limited power in the hostels, as part of the SUC, they do help out with other Student Union initiatives. Last year these included projects such as the Vendiman, the LAN Radio committee, Food Outlet Committee and the Student Health Council. While some of these initiatives like the LAN Radio seem to be inactive with no updates on them for months already, HReps definitely are in a place where they can effect change on campus, if they choose to.
Nonetheless, candidates campaigning for a particular post  should take care to not create misleading manifestos, intentionally or unintentionally, about the extent of the power and responsibility that their post entails. Voters should also remain aware of the role and duties of their elected representatives. 
Footnotes:
[1]: You can find a copy of the Students’ Union Constitution here. 
[2]: This information and link can be found under the Complaints tab of the SWD website.
[3]: The image (word cloud) in this article was generated based on the frequency of appearance of the words in most of last year’s manifestos. All manifestos were taken from the Election Commission Facebook page, and processed to plain text using an OCR application, Tesseract. All related raw data can be found in this link.

            

Campus News
Elections 2019-20, H-Rep Elections






