18/02/2017Headers
Internet on Campus

Chronology

Current Scenario

The Truths and Myths of Slow Net:

What changed between 2014 and now?

The Cost Factor

Bandwidth vs. Latency

Then why the Data Cap?

Cyberoam and Load Balancers

The National Knowledge Network

Going the Ethernet way

Conclusion

Acknowledgements

Reference



            











At BPHC, it is possible for us to live without food for a day, but 
not without internet, even for an hour. From Facebook and 
club/department work to accessing academic and professional resources, 
our lives on campus depend heavily on the internet. It being so crucial 
to everything we do, any disruption in the net service or speed is bound
 to cause an uproar and rightly so. Though complaints about the net 
speed have reduced greatly (particularly after the forming of the IPC 
Student Nucleus), JC Spotlight intended to cover the campus internet 
scenario so that all students know of all possible perspectives about 
it. This was done so that the students could take an informed and mature
 course of action if some problem arises in future.
It was 2014. Modi had just been elected Prime Minister. Those were 
the times when half of the present campus crowd was studying for their 
entrance exams. The campus internet speeds were agreeable to everyone. 
Net wasn’t as good as one would have access to at home. Yet, it was 
agreeable. Those who wanted large file downloads used to do it early in 
mornings. Problems in speed started in second semester of 2014-15. A few
 discussions ensued in FEG and it ended there. In the first semester of 
2015-16, however, the speed fell to new lows. Everyone on campus mailed 
the IPC office at least once, leading to IPC, in consultation with 
Student Representatives (nominated by the then Student Union), 
introducing a data cap of 800 MB per student per day. The idea behind 
the introduction of the cap was to ensure that a minority of users don’t
 eat up most of the bandwidth. Following an uproar on FEG and Shoutboxx,
 however, the cap was removed. Rather, an 800 MB per download cap was 
introduced. Slow net still ensued though. In February 2016, a new 
internet policy was adopted, with a 2 GB data cap per person per day. 
Since the cap was within the acceptable range of most, it wasn’t 
contested.
The campus has a total of 490 Mbps bandwidth. Of this, 90 Mbps is 
allocated to ACAD Block and the remaining is used by the rest of the 
campus. As of the date of publication of this piece, no bhavan-wise 
individual allocation was in place. The data cap is 2 GB per user per 
day. From 5 days before the major examinations (T1, T2 and Compre), the 
cap is raised to 5 GB per day.
Honestly, we couldn’t come to a conclusion as to what really changed.
 The average daily consumption of the whole campus for the month of 
September 2016 was 2500 GB per day. It means that not everyone exhausts 
their data cap. Yet, one of the many possible ways of explaining the 
difference between 2014 and now could be that, given we are growing 
technically and culturally by the semester, our data needs have been 
increasing at a rate faster than the rate at which bandwidth was being 
added. We don’t have consumption data of 2014 to test this hypothesis 
though. There could be other reasons too.
Getting extra bandwidth at our campus is quite different from getting
 it at our homes. In the urban and suburban parts of the city, the 
Internet Service Providers (ISPs) will have a dense network of optic 
fibres. Therefore, if we take a new connection, all he will have to do 
is add a small extension from the optic fibre from the road to our 
bedroom. But when new bandwidth is added at our campus given all the 
existing optic fibres are in full use, it costs a lot more because the 
line has to be laid from campus to the nearest beam line (which is 
kilometers away).
In reality, bandwidth (though important) is not the only factor that 
determines the speed of the net. Another significant factor affecting 
speed is Latency. Latency is the delay in response of the website. 
Here’s a crude analogy. 100 persons are to start at main gate and get 
into F108 as soon as possible. Two factors determine the rate at which 
they will enter F108. One, the speed at which they can run. Two, even if
 everyone runs at their peak speed and reach the door at the same time, 
they will have to queue up to get in. And this queue length depends on 
the width of the door. Here, the time it takes to reach the door is 
equivalent to latency. And the width of the door is equivalent to the 
bandwidth. Therefore, only high bandwidth may not always ensure speed. 
The latency (time lag) should also be low. And this latency varies from 
one website to another and depends on varied hardware factors like your 
laptop, the website servers, the router etc.
According to Aditya Krishna (2014 batch), student representative (who
 was nominated by the then SU, not to be confused with IPC Nucleus), the
 2 GB figure was arbitrary. It wasn’t based on the data consumption 
statistics or optimization of data consumption. Rather, a blunt attempt 
to enforce a cap. The only rationale for the cap was a conviction that a
 minority of users eat into the bandwidth.
Many a times, it has been suggested that there could be a bad 
configuration of the Cyberoam. According to Aditya Krishna, when he 
talked about this to the IPC faculty, “he [said] that hiring people for 
the amount they are hired here, this is probably the best level of 
expertise you can expect here.”
The NKN is a government-run multi-gigabit network which specifically 
serves the educational and research institutions of the country. 
BITS-Pilani, as a university, is included in this network and gets a 
bandwidth of 10 Gbps. Of this, 150 Mbps is allocated to internet use and
 the remaining for resources like NPTEL. Sreekar Chigurupati (2014 
batch) contacted Prof. Chittaranjan Hota in regard to this in 2015. 
According to Prof. Hota, because of some architectural issues, the NKN 
line cannot be shared with the Hyderabad campus. And BPHC cannot request
 for a separate line for itself as we are not a separate university from
 BITS-Pilani.
A good part of our daily consumption is Facebook. And it’s primarily 
used to communicate with people within the campus. Yet, the data has to 
go all the way to Fb servers and come back. Something similar happens 
with downloads (though not in large scale, thanks to DC). A Linux 
Repository has been created on our campus’ servers (Courtesy: Siddhanth 
Kumar Patel and Srimanta Barua) so that multiple people need not 
download the same update from net and waste their data. An initiative 
was taken in the year 2015 by Nischay Mamidi and Rohitt Vashishtha (both
 2015 batch) to make FEG and Shoutboxx posts accessible through 
Ethernet, so that multiple persons needn’t load these groups. However, 
it didn’t click. According to the current Internet Policy, Facebook, 
Gmail, YouTube, and Wikipedia are given partiality for the speed.
The internet speed is satisfactory now, especially after the 
constitution of student representation in form of the IPC Student 
Nucleus. Some volatility is observed now and then, but given the number 
of users, that is expected. JC Spotlight nevertheless covered this issue
 for the sake that you get a presentation of all the discussions and 
perspectives on it and in case of any issue in the future, you have most
 of the facts at your disposal.
Some changes are still in requirement for optimal internet usage. 
These include making use of intranet instead of internet wherever 
possible and statistics based data cap. And the work is hopefully in 
progress. The principle problem till last semester, according to 
Saivivek Peddi (IPC Nucleus), was that IPC couldn’t understand the 
student requirements. Given the Student nucleus, dialogue with IPC is 
easier now.
Note: Mbps in the current article means “Megabits per second”. Same goes for Gbps.
Article by Priyanka Perumalla, Rohitt Vashishtha, Lipi Deepakshi 
Patnaik. Originally published on SWD Chronicles on February 18th, 2017.

            

Campus News, Spotlight
Campus Connectivity, Internet






