28/04/2020Headers
MS Admits: Interview with Tushar Kanth



            











Where and for which programs did you receive offers?
I received offers from George Washington University (MS CS), SUNY Stony Brook (MS CS), University of Utah (MS in Computing) and the University of Maryland (Masters in Human-Computer Interaction). I also received offers from Arizona State (Masters in Software Engineering), University of Buffalo (Masters in Engineering Science) and UMass Amherst (Masters in Computer Engineering) albeit not for the programs that I had applied for.
How did you build your profile? What are some of the notable projects that you worked on in college?
In my case, I had a very diverse profile. I wanted to learn and try out different things. Hence, I did different electives just to learn and figure out what I liked. I have worked on projects in Computer Graphics, Machine Learning, Information Retrieval, Human-Computer Interaction. I also worked on the side as a graphic designer and web developer and worked for a few start-ups and I also contributed to open-source software as well. However, one project that really stood out for me was an SOP that I did under a professor in the Civil Department, Dr Jagadeesh Anmala. It was a Deep Learning project that involved creating a neural network for precipitation prediction using time series data. 
How important do you think CGPA is or was in your case in the application process?
Your Master’s application has many different components, your CGPA, your GRE and TOEFL scores, your LoRs (Letters of Recommendation), the projects that you’ve done and your profile etc. Each university attaches a different weightage to each of these components. But CGPA is an important factor that influences your chances of getting an admit. Most top universities that you would have heard of attach a significant amount of importance to your CGPA since it is a way that they are able to easily differentiate students academically. 
I, myself have a CGPA of 6.8, and hence I didn’t really have very high expectations when I was applying but I did end up receiving several admits from reputed programs.
For people interested in pursuing a Master’s however, I would say work and try to keep a CGPA of above 7, which is a respectable grade and also the cut-off for a lot of universities. But, a low CGPA, as in my case, does not bring down your chances to zero. But it is also important to remember that you have to be able to offset your CGPA through other components of your profile, either through projects or strong LoRs, and/or be able to justify your low CGPA in some way. In my case, my open-source contributions, relevant projects, as well as my ADHD, allowed for a valid justification of my sub-par CG, but this might not be the case for everyone.
How is your application different when you apply after work experience as opposed to straight out of college?
The importance of work experience is not really something that can be generalised for any MS admit. On one hand, programs that focus on getting its students ready for the industry might prefer applicants who already have prior work experience so that they have an idea of the current state of the industry. On the other hand, programs that are more research-oriented might prefer a continued education and lean towards students straight out of college. All this really depends on the admissions panel, and as an applicant, I don’t think there’s much I can comment on. So, if you are wondering whether you should go directly for your masters right after graduation or after getting work ex, I think it purely is based on you. Industry experience could help when you look for internships or jobs during your Masters studies, but it isn’t a decisive factor from what I have heard.
How did you find your area of interest?
A major way in which I explored my interests were through the various electives that I took in college. This helped me get a clearer picture of what exactly each field entailed. For example, in my 2-2, I took a Disciplinary Elective, Human-Computer Interfacing (HCI) which is what piqued my interest in the field. It basically deals with how regular people deal with technology and shows how our user experience can become more intuitive. From there, I also delved into user- interface and user-experience design as well. 
Another important thing to keep in mind while delving into various fields and exploring your interests is to think about the future prospects of that field. What kind of opportunities and what kind of growth can you expect by going down that path? And this is especially important if you are planning on going for a Masters abroad since it can be a very expensive investment. 
Possible research tracks in your subfield and how did you decide on which one you wanted to pursue?
Most of the programs that I got admitted to focused on Information Retrieval, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Human-Computer Interaction. However, one major advantage of an MS CS is that it allows for a great deal of flexibility. Even if you are told to focus on a particular area, most universities allow you to take any mix of electives. So for example even if you were admitted for a program in AI, you will have the opportunity to do courses in Databases or Computer Architecture etc. and you can learn a lot of different things. Furthermore, for an MS CS graduate, there are hordes of opportunities out there in every field. 
Personally, the sub-field I have taken a liking for is Human-Computer Interaction (HCI). It is a relatively niche field today despite the fact that it plays a significant role in almost all of our lives. A primary factor that sustained my interest in HCI was the fact that this field allows for a great deal of creative freedom. In an average CS profile job, you are expected to simply follow instructions given by your superiors. But from what I had heard from seniors and others, this was not the case in HCI and that was something that I found novel and exciting, to be seen as not just a coder or a programmer but as something more. I was both happy and surprised when I got into the HCI program at the University of Maryland since it is a fairly unique program at a reputed university and admits limited students as well. 
Another factor that plays a role in deciding which subfield you want to pursue is the job opportunities and future prospects you can expect once you obtain the degree. That is not really in favour of an HCI degree and does swing the favour towards other branches. 
Is there any other advice you would like to give juniors who are interested in applying for Masters? 
The first piece of advice I would like to give is that If you do decide to pursue an MS, have some clarity. Once you go for a Masters in a particular field, it presents a career path right in front of you. Branching out immediately isn’t ideal, so you would have to stick to that path for at least a few years. So, ensure you join a field you think you would be interested in. Taking projects or doing relevant courses can help you figure out those interests.
Apart from just personal interest, ensure you choose a field you feel will be viable, not just right now but even 5 years down the line. An MS is not cheap by any means. From what I’ve heard, it’ll take about 60 lakhs for 2 years, and most of it is usually financed by loans which can become a burden and source of worry. For example, my brother, after finishing his masters at UNC Charlotte, had to sit idle for about six months and this was a mentally as well as physically exhausting period for him. Apart from your subfield, try to apply to universities with a good reputation and a strong alumni network since a lot of jobs abroad rely on referrals. 
Another very important criteria for the selection process are Letters of Recommendation (LoRs). The professors at BITS don’t often tend to provide letters of Recommendations very easily, either because of low CG or just because of lack of interactions between the two of you. Colleges consider LoRs as an important factor since they would trust the words of faculty more than those of a student. Most colleges require at least 3 LORs, so make sure you maintain good relationships with about 5 or 6 professors, either in your own department or even a different one. Try to reach a state where if you were to approach a prof for a LOR, they wouldn’t hesitate. And for that, first of all, abolish the stigma about approaching a professor, Just visit their cabin occasionally, whether for doubts or for friendly chats. Take up opportunities to work on projects, either formal or informal, under their guidance. Maintaining proper relationships with profs. is important not only in BITS but also your master’s university, since professors often have very diverse and well-connected networks which can help you as well.
Also, always spend a good amount of time on writing your SOP, reviewing it and modifying it depending on the university you are applying to. A good SOP can swing a decision in your favour even if you don’t have a good CGPA. And definitely make a good resume/CV, highlighting your technical ability, your projects, relevant extracurricular activities.
Lastly planning ahead is extremely important while deciding where to apply. Once you receive your GRE and TOEFL scores you will have an idea of which universities are realistically within your reach. So as soon as you have your scorecard, start planning, go through the application requirements and prepare your materials as the applications can be very time-consuming and detailed.
Finally any additional advice for those with a low CG?
The above points are valid for everyone. But if you have a low CGPA, there are few more things you need to do to present a strong case for yourself to the admissions panel.
Firstly, identify what you are interested in and which programs you wish to pursue. Do some research on which programs align with your interest and list out all those universities offering such programs.
Next is find out what kind of profile the students those who got admitted there have and try to mould your profile in a similar way. Definitely do projects which are related to that field. Get in touch with seniors in the field to help you out with the same.
The reason why you should do this is to be able to highlight why you have an interest in this field and what you have done to build on that interest in your SOP.
Lastly, if you can, definitely try to improve on your grades as much as you can. At least keep it on an upward curve starting from now.

            








