08/07/2023Headers
SUC Report Card(2022-23): Bhavya Jain



            











With the vision of making tech facilities more accessible to those interested, Bhavya Jain, as the Technical Secretary of 22-23, supported tech culture growth on campus  . Looking back at his manifesto, as of April 2023, out of the many main points in his manifesto, 10/27 are fulfilled, 4/27 are in progress, and 13/27 are unfulfilled. Here’s the link to the manifesto.
Proposal for ATMOS’22
This Atmos we saw so many workshops organized by various Tech clubs on campus. There were workshops by SAE, SEDS, AD-Astra, Crux, ARC, Aeolus etc. There were also workshops by outside vendors like one conducted by Vulcan(IC Engines and hybrid vehicle workshop)
A smaller tech expo was done by I-Cell during Atmos. But as described in manifesto tech expo by DRDO, Air Force Station was not done, because the budget presented was late and hence there was no discussion about that because paperwork related to such things would take time.
There were enough posters for every event at all major locations on campus but as mentioned about navigation map on Atmos website and app there was no such thing.
It was mentioned that there will be an  ATMOS app which will be made before the fest to increase the footfall and make all the process of registrations and every single detail about the fest in one place. But due to less participation from outside college the app was never made.
There was an ATMOS website with a schedule of all the events mentioned. The website featured the event name and the club by which it was organized.
Hackathons were organized during ATMOS by some clubs.
ATMOS presented merchandise with various designs, but it arrived nearly before Arena. It was delayed because of some logistics. As mentioned, the logo of sponsor on merchandise for bringing a bigger Title sponsor was not done.
As mentioned, pre-fest events like a marathon, blood donation camp in  collaboration with various NGOs and government bodies could not be done because of late presentation of budget. Before the budget presentation no MoU can be signed. But it was discussed with enactus to organize a blood camp but cannot be done because of the above mentioned reason.
Tech Culture
Research
The project portal website was made but could not be hosted because the 25% SU fund was not received and there was no fund to buy a domain for the website .
Professors were involved with projects of some clubs like SEDS and ARC. In ARC professor Abhishek Sarkar from the mechanical department was working with the students to help in their projects.
As the portal was not there DIY projects were not made and hence not added.
As HD students are for a small period of time on campus they are not formally involved in club activities but some masters students were involved with ARC for their project. During Tech week also few seniors were involved in some workshops.
ACC(Academic Counseling Cell) conducted Coffee With Professors where students interacted with various professors in mess regarding research, higher studies and other stuff.
         Funds
While it cannot be stated conclusively, the execution of Tech-Week successfully may mark this fulfilled.
No fund was allocated to the technical senate, preventing them from providing any assistance.
External sponsors were there for ATMOS and Tech Week as well as title sponsor was there.
There was no industry support for funding because industry funding required projects and there were no projects because of lack of funds in the Tech senate. But there were interactions with various companies like McLaren, Mahindra, Porsche during formula-e racing in Hyderabad. Also ZF-motor contacted Vulcan for any future collaboration.
            SMP
This was not fulfilled because there was lack of funds.
The website has been made temporarily where all the inductions would be scheduled. It is not completed and not made publicly available because the website cannot be hosted.
Due to lack of funds, the SMP was not able to progress far enough. Once the portal is made public, the documentations about projects of clubs, learning material etc. shall be documented. 
         Tech night:(Unfulfilled)
The technical-recreational event, which was supposed to be a new event involving the entire GB and the technical bodies, in further collaboration with cultural and sports clubs was not fulfilled to the fullest. 
          Tech Senate
A technical activities management team was formed. They were active in activities conducted by the tech senate like paper plane flying competition, atmos. The team was there whenever needed.
No schedule of activities was shared by clubs/associations as there was no portal made for that due to lack of funds. The schedule was however made for ATMOS and Tech Week and was made public.
Introductory sessions for the GB were not conducted before the start of induction process as there was always a clash between freshers’ and senior batches’ schedule. However there were some sessions/workshops conducted during ATMOS by a few clubs.
There were multiple merchandises produced, and sold in large numbers. 
     5.  Workspace for technical bodies: (Unfulfilled)
A dedicated workspace for tech teams was to be arranged other than Tinkerer’s lab and Sandbox. Talks with administration were going on but it was inconclusive. 
The work done by technical bodies is to be displayed before the GB. But after ATMOS no huge scale work was done by the clubs due to lack of funds, thus no open house sessions were conducted.

            








