13/06/2022Headers
SUC Report Card(2021-22): Rahul Vashishta



            











In the academic year 2021-2022, the Sports Secretary (Boys) has fulfilled 1/5 of his manifesto points, 3/5 are in progress and 1/5 have not been fulfilled at all. You can read his original manifesto here.
This program was proposed to help get rid of the sedentary lifestyle that many students have faced in the light of the COVID-19 lockdown. The Sports Sec had planned on opening a food outlet that would provide nutrition-rich food. However, the Sports Secretary assured that the proposals have been sent to the administration and once the director approves, the required arrangements will be made. 
Here, the Secretary proposed to build wash rooms and changing rooms near the central hockey and football fields but this has not been done. The hostel QT’s still have sand instead of the proposed turf or grass. When this proposal was made to the administration, they already had their own proposals in plan. The same is still left to be implemented in the QTs of Valmiki and Vishwakarma. While at least one foosball table has been installed in the hostels’ common rooms as per the promise, the dart boards were not installed as the darts were considered hazardous.
The suggested arena-themed sports program did take place in the form of InterBhavan Competition in one semester. Apart from that, many sports tournaments were also conducted. However, the SU website to further publicize sports activities was not possible as the SU website was never launched.
The skating rink for the skating team has not been constructed. However, Rahul promised that the necessary details have been sent to the administration and we can expect progress in the next construction phase. Skating team has been given shelves in the SUC room to keep their equipment. The purchase of new equipment has been made as usual but the team members say the Sports Secretary had no role to play. All the discussions happened between the SAC incharge and the sports teams directly. A common jersey for all the teams was provided by the Sports Secretary after the Inter BITS Sports Tournament was canceled. However, the team members had to pay for the team jerseys that they got printed. 
Although the campus opened a couple of months after the SU took charge, very few promises were fulfilled in the limited time the Sports Secretary had. The workout series and tournaments did not take place during the online semester. Interestingly, the sports secretary said that some videos were shot in the gym once the campus reopened and they are with the VFX club for editing. How much use they hold in an offline semester is a question whose answer we leave to the readers to decide. Some sports teams did independently hold Q&amp;A sessions online but it is unclear whether it was the work of the Secretary or not. However, A few matches were streamed in collaboration with the RAF. The esports tournaments promised were organized but the Sports Secretary had no role to play in that. Esports is not a part of the sports senate and they act independently.

            








