30/06/2023Headers
SUC Report Card(2022-23): Neeti Verma



            











Keeping the campus’ sport culture alive and improving the facilities while taking care of girl’s active participation in the sports culture of campus was the main vision of Sports Secretary (girls) Neeti Verma during the 21-22 Student Union Council Elections. Looking back at her manifesto, as of April 2023, out of the 11 points mentioned in initiatives, 3/11 are fulfilled, 2/11 are in progress, and 6/11 are unfulfilled. In the Infrastructural changes, out of the 4 points mentioned, 1 is in progress, 3 are not fulfilled. Among the Improving health awareness among students, 1 out of the 2 points mentioned has been fulfilled and the other point hasn’t been fulfilled. Here is the link to the manifesto.
INITIATIVES:
1.       Self Defence (Fulfilled)
An initiative that was put forward to teach girls on campus basic self defence techniques. There have been 3 workshops conducted on self defence throughout the AY 21-22. Among three workshops, one of them was conducted online while the rest two being conducted offline in Meera Bhawan on Martial arts.
2.      Introducing new sports like long jump, discus throw and Shotput (Unfulfilled)
As described in the manifesto, it was aimed to introduce new sports like long jump and shotput but remained unfulfilled due to the fact there was no proper area to play these sports in the campus. The idea was put forward to authorities.
3.      Semester long sports calendar (Unfulfilled)
A semester long Sports calendar was supposed to be released that list down the timetable of all intra campus sport events for the semester. But this was overlooked and the sports calendar was not made.
4.     Provide Coaches for enthusiasts (Unfulfilled)
There were plans to have coaches for sports teams and help the enthusiastic members but no coaches were provided for helping the enthusiastic players in teams.
5.      Opening of Nutritious Outlets (Ongoing)
Area has been made for the opening of nutritious outlets. But the GAD approval is required for the opening.
6.      Start Yoga Classes on weekends (Unfulfilled)
This was put forward to deal with exam stress, body posture and menstrual cramps however due to the unavailability of instructors this was unfulfilled throughout the academic year.
7.      Introduction of Aerobics/Zumba (Fulfilled)
Initially it was put forward to conduct Zumba and Aerobics Wrokshops every weekend. Zumba workshop was conducted on one weekend but due to the very less amount of people showing up it had to be discontinued. Aerobics workshop also was not conducted as there was not enough response.
8.     Creation of New blog (Unfulfilled)
Creation of a new blog that registers and maintains the achievements of all the girls who excel in sports but there was no such blog created.
9.      Providing emergency health kit in every sport (Unfulfilled)
It was initially thought to provide health kits in every sport and ground. However, only the captains were provided with the medical kits and not every team member received the kit.
10.    Organize a special overnight tournament dedicated to childhood sport games (Ongoing)
This idea of inclusion of a special night every semester dedicated to games like gilli danda, gully cricket, etc. was put forward and it has been spoken about with DoRA alongside having Kannan sir’s approval.
11.     Conduct Inter-Bhawan tournaments (Fulfilled)
It has been fulfilled successfully and all the students had a lot of fun during the inter bhawan sports fest. This also uplifted the sport culture in the campus encouraging more people to play and join sport clubs.
INFRASTRUCTURAL CHANGES:
1.       Reconstruction of old football field (Unfulfilled)
The OFG was not reconstructed but leveling was done on the OFG before Arena was conducted.
2.      New locker Shelves in SAC (Unfulfilled)
It was put forward to include new locker shelves in SAC. However, when the SAC budget was allocated, it was found there were other larger issues to look upon and new locker shelves were not that much needed.
3.      Improving sport facilities in hostel (Ongoing)
The sport facilities in the QT’s of the hostel were always looked after and replaced with new equipment like nets whenever needed. However, the promised provision of equipment with the help of ID scanner system was not fulfilled but put forward.
4.     Introducing non electric water coolers near sporting courts (Unfulfilled)
Non-electric water coolers were installed in front of the volleyball courts. Regarding the installation of water coolers near basketball and tennis courts, this was not fulfilled as the process was quite time-taking and the monsoon further halted the process.
IMPROVING THE HEALTH AWARENESS AMONG STUDENTS:
1.       Partner with Gatorade/Reebok/Smart Watch and have Athletic runs (Fulfilled)
We were able to successfully partner with companies like Monster, Redbull during various sports fests within the campus which promoted the sporting culture throughout the fest. The mentioned companies in the manifesto were pitched but they didn’t get back to us. There were Athletic runs conducted successfully in the campus throughout the academic year 21-22.
2.      Organizing Pinkathon in the campus (Unfulfilled)
Pinkathon is the biggest women marathon initiative in India. Pinkathon was personally contacted but the Pinkathon was not interested to conduct a marathon in such a small scale like college. Pinkathon mostly operates in conducting a marathon in larger scale like a city.
INDIVIDUAL SPORT REFORMS:
1.       Monthly Review Meets (Fulfilled)
There were monthly review meets conducted in a very regular manner. The review meets served as a purpose not only to check facility issues but also to discuss equipment issues, conducting sports fests like RIXA and Arena.
2.      Frequent replacement of equipments (Fulfilled)
The perishable equipments like basketballs, tennis balls and shuttles were replaced whenever the team required it. It was a simple process without involving many people for permissions and other things. 
BASKETBALL:
Regular cleaning of courts and bleachers was taken care of. The outer fence of the basketball court was repaired and cushions were installed below rings of basketball poles. However, there were no good basketballs for non-team members because, even after providing good basketballs on court they were being stolen every time. Water coolers as mentioned before were not installed.
FOOTBALL:
New nets were replaced just before arena and not regularly due to the constraint of budget. The team was provided with new equipment for sports drills like cones, hurdles and agility ring ladders.
CRICKET:
The nets installation process and timely maintenance of the nets was properly taken care of whenever it was needed. The cricket pitch maintenance was ensured and done whenever the captain felt the need. The green cricket mat at OFG during intra college tournaments was promised but not fulfilled as the sports secretary boys did not feel it was required.
VOLLEYBALL:
The court was maintained properly and the flood light intensity check was done regularly.
BADMINTON:
The proposal to construct new wooden courts was put forward to higher authorities of the campus and is still in process.
SWIMMING:
The maintenance of the swimming pool has been quite a problem throughout the academic year. The swimming pool did open during the AY21-22 but remained closed most of the time due to maintenance issues. An emergency scout was always present to prevent students from drowning. A new girls swimming team was formed this year to promote girls to take up swimming as a sport. However, having different time slots for only girls’ swimming was not able to be accomplished as the pool was open for less hours and it would be impossible to allocate time especially only for girls in that time.
ARENA 2022:
1.       Pre-Arena Events (Fulfilled)
Different teams and clubs from around Hyderabad were called upon and we’ve had quite a few friendly matches so that our campus players could improve their game and enter a professional tier. IIT Kanpur sports fest was something that was not promised but it was successfully pulled off during the tenure with proper planning along with team captains.
2.      Have a second-year representative from each sport (Unfulfilled)
It was planned to have a Sports Organizing Council (SOC) where they will directly contact sports secretaries during the event. However, they felt it was not required as most of the responsibilities were taken up by captain and vice-captain of the respective teams. Nevertheless, there was a second-year representative directly from the SU Management itself to take care of the smooth ongoing of the event.
3.      Provide free protein meals for all team members 15 days before Arena (Unfulfilled)
Provision of free protein meals for team members before Arena was not spoken about with the SMC and thus it remained unfulfilled.
4.     Medical kits and Physicians during Arena (Fulfilled)
Medical kits were provided to the team captains frequently and physicians were asked to stay regularly in the Medical Centre during the Arena.
5.      Inter college events (Fulfilled)
Inter-college events were conducted to prepare our teams before Arena as well as to promote different colleges to participate in Arena.
6.      Publicize using a creative mascot (Fulfilled)
The Arena logo is itself the mascot and it was printed on all of the team jerseys. Moreover, Instagram reels and Facebook posts were made to publicize the Arena fest so that it will gain more attraction.

            








