02/07/2023Headers
SUC Report Card(2022-23): Aakarsh Devata



            











With the vision to improve sports culture on the campus, Sports Secretary Aakarsh Devata was elected for this position.  Throughout his tenure of 2022-2023, 13 of his planned initiatives were fulfilled, 2 are in progress, and 13 are unfulfilled. To ensure that we’re on the same page, here’s the link to his manifesto.
Fitness programs
It wasn’t possible to conduct an athletic event every 15 days, but compared to the previous frequency of sports events, it has improved- an example being organizing RIXA and 2 runs in each semester.
In order to maintain good health and clarify our doubts, this idea was proposed. Although talks with dietitians took place in order to guide in terms of nutritious food intake, it couldn’t go further than that as none of them were willing to come to campus.
The initial stages of introductory sessions were conducted, but it could not go further, and the turnout for these sessions was low, which made it difficult to proceed with this.
Permanent coaches could not be arranged. However, some sports, such as basketball have coaches who come for a few days a week.
The idea of workout rings pull up bars was initiated to be set up in every hostel QT to enable enthusiasts to practice callisthenics and other exercises. Although this could not be fulfilled, a few volleyball and badminton courts were set up in QT.
Mentorship Programs
The idea of mentorship programs was thought of to be able to find enthusiastic members amongst the general body. However, team members could not conduct mentoring sessions on many weekends, but almost all sports have an enthusiastic group of people eager to learn and improve presently.
Competitions
AIU- Association of Indian Universities conducts inter-university sports competitions. However, due to budget constraints, this could not be fulfilled. The registration for AIU requires 50k, which was already passed by the time Aakarsh was elected. However, this has been sanctioned for this year’s budget so the college can register for AIU this year.
There was an inter-bhavan sports event conducted this semester which ran over the course of x number of days. This tournament was conducted in mid-April. In addition to this, RIXA was conducted last semester, which included 4 major sports- basketball, football, volleyball and cricket.
There were a lot of friendly matches conducted for a lot of sports. Basketball teams and volleyball teams also participated in a lot of matches outside. In addition, the football team participated in a red bull and a reliance tournament too. 
10.  Zonal Participation(Fulfilled)
Only the basketball team played in a district level tournament.
11. Blitzkrieg league(Fulfilled)
Blitzkrieg is for the general body and is played with a leather ball ( Usually cricket is played with a tennis ball in the old football ground) in the main ground. There was an auction Cricket team floated a form. About 150-180 members from the general body filled it and including the cricket team 200 people were auctioned, and 16 were selected, and the tournament happened in a month and a half.
New Initiatives
12. Self-defense workshops(Fulfilled)
In order to improve upper body strength and protection from threats, this idea was proposed and fulfilled as there were 2 self-defense workshops conducted.
13. Introduction of new sports like handball, long jump, and high jump(Unfulfilled)
It was considered, but there has been no progress in this regard. As of now, nothing has materialized in this matter.
Inclusivity
14. Induction with one week prior notice(Unfulfilled)
This could not be properly executed as there were multiple rounds of inductions for different batches, and it wasn’t possible to give out a week prior notice. However, all inductions were announced 3 days prior to when it was conducted.
15. Complain anonymously about sport-related matters(Unfulfilled)
A mechanism was thought to be put in place to complain anonymously and
non-anonymously about anything sports-related issues which can be resolved by the sports secretaries. However, no such mechanism was launched.
16. Screening major sport events(Fulfilled)
Multiple football matches and cricket matches were screened which increased awareness, spread enthusiasm and increased involvement in sports on the campus.
17. Regular discussions with the sports captain(Fulfilled)
In order to address any problems being faced, one-on-one conversations with sports captains were maintained regarding upcoming sports matches and the potential necessity for new equipment.
18. Regular feedback from the GB(Unfulfilled)
A provision was to be arranged to collect regular feedback from the GB
throughout the year to respond to the required needs. However, this could not be fulfilled.
Healthy Habits
19. Increase availability of healthy food options on campus (Fulfilled)
After speaking with the management of Fruitful, chicken was served for a while, and they continue to provide boiled eggs, omelettes and paneer.
20. Sponsors for each team in arena (Unfulfilled)
For arena, there were no particular external sponsors but reimbursements for personal expenses (such as travel expenses and registration) were taken care of
21. Maintenance of washrooms in sac (Fulfilled)
Compared to how it was previously, the washrooms are currently decently well-maintained. In addition to this, water filters have also been installed.
Infrastructure
22. Bleachers in new football ground(Unfulfilled)
In order to increase viewership of frisbee, volleyball and athletics, bleachers were proposed to be constructed. Due to underground pipelines in the new football ground, it is not possible to have bleachers built there.
23. Installation of cricket nets (In progress)
For sufficient practice for the cricket team, cricket nets had to be installed. The installation of cricket nets is almost done, along with a mat that has also been installed. The Leveling of the field is yet to be done in the next couple of weeks.
24.Kabaddi mats(Unfulfilled)
As playing on sand leads to injuries, kabaddi mats have been suggested. However, this did not happen. Although, it has been suggested in this year’s budget too.
25. Old football ground for hockey(Fulfilled)
The old football ground has been made available for the hockey team to practice.
26. Procurement of skates of all sizes and installation of skating rink(Fulfilled)
Skating rink construction did not happen, and there is no advancement in this regard, but there are enough skates now for the team with different sizes.
27. Installation of a sand pit outside the running track for long jump and high jump(Unfulfilled)
This has been in the plans, but it has not materialized yet.
Gym
28. Free gym membership for sport team members(Fulfilled)
Previously, gym membership had to be paid, and there was a register which was maintained outside. But now, it has been made free for the general body, so not anybody can access it.

            








