30/11/2018Headers
SUC Report Cards 2018: Bandari Shiva
Cultural Book of BPHC: Not Fulfilled
Regional Grubs: Fulfilled
All Event Calendar: Not Fulfilled
Excursions and Trips: Not Fulfilled
Streamlining Renaissance and Caza de Talentos: In Progress
Theme Based Weekends: Not Fulfilled
Streamlining Open Mics: Fulfilled



            











The Cultural Secretaries are responsible for all intra-college 
cultural activities and initiating cultural exchange programmes with 
other institutions. The Cultural Secretary (Boys), Bandari Shiva Sai 
Krishna’s manifesto listed 7 distinct points, with specific details on 
how he planned to execute all of them. Of these seven points, 2 have been achieved, 1 is in progress and 4 have not been fulfilled yet.
We now look at each point of the manifesto in detail. A copy of the  complete manifesto can be found on the Election Commission  Facebook Page (click here).
The idea behind the Cultural Book of BPHC was to create an archive  for all the cultural activities conducted by the regional associations  and clubs over the course of an academic semester. All the clubs and the  regional associations on campus have been asked to document the events  that they conduct over the course of the year. During the next semester,  the Cultural Secretary plans on enlisting the help of the Journal Club  to create a polished first draft of the Book. However, the Journal Club  has not been approached about this endevour yet. He hopes to release it  to the general body with the incoming batch of 2019. However, since the  SU website has not  even been updated to reflect the names of the current post holders of  the SUC, where the Book will be published remains to be seen. It should  be noted that this is a point common to both cultural secretaries.  However, an intention to collaborate hasn’t been specified.
Three regional gala dinners have been organised over the course of this semester – a Maharashtrian gala during the month of September, a  Bengali gala during Dusshera and most recently, a gala dinner featuring  north Indian dishes. Contrary to his manifesto, none of them had any  outside chefs prepare the dishes.  It is worth noting that according to  the SMC, and contrary to the claims of the Cultural Secretary, none of  the SUC members played a major role in organising these gala dinners and  they claim that this was purely an SMC initiative. The Cultural  Secretary does, however, plan to hold at least one large scale grub next  semester and plans on collaborating with the Cooking Club for the same.
While an all event calendar has not been created yet, the Cultural 
Secretary claims that he will work on fulfilling this as soon as the 
next semester begins. He plans on creating a monthly calendar that 
documents all the events–including cultural events, technical events, 
talks and competitions–that will be conducted on campus. It will also 
feature upcoming competitions in neighbouring colleges that the student 
body may choose to participate in. This, in turn, will increase club 
participation in inter-collegiate competitions. He will be posting a 
Google Drive link for the calendar on Facebook at the start of each 
month. Since this is one of the manifesto points that the Cultural 
Secretaries share in common, they plan on collaborating to achieve this 
next semester.
There has been no progress on this front yet since this semester was 
pretty hectic. However with a significantly higher number of fests and 
activities happening next semester, the fruition of this plan can be 
looked upon skeptically. The Cultural Secretary claims that he will 
collaborate with RAF to plan an excursion for the students next 
semester.
Both Renaissance and Caza de Talentos have been planned for next 
semester as pre-Pearl events. Even though the budget for these events 
were not separately presented at the General Body Meeting alongside the 
ATMoS budget, the Cultural Secretary is confident that he will be able 
to release the prize money for both these events within a week of them 
being conducted.
When it comes to theme based weekends, this semester saw a solitary 
Halloween-themed weekend with a single event that was conducted by the 
Fashion Society. The Cultural Secretary plans on working with the clubs 
on campus towards having more theme-based weekends next semester on a 
fortnightly or monthly basis. While this isn’t the original weekly 
frequency that was promised, he claims that it will definitely happen 
during the next semester.
This semester saw several open mics and similar events being 
conducted by various clubs on campus for the benefit of the general 
student body. The semester began with an open mic being conducted for 
the freshers by the Comedy Club. Throughout the course of the semester 
ELAS conducted slam poetry events at C3 and Nescafe lawns, the Music 
Club conducted a musical jam at Amul and Geetanjali conducted a Cultural
 Night on the occasion of Ashtami to name a few.
Apart from the manifesto points, the Cultural Secretary plans on 
motivating the clubs to increase their inter-collegiate participation by
 having a Best Club Award (which will be a monetary prize for the 
winning club) at the end of the semester. He also stated that he had 
been in talks with the Indywood Talent Club for certification. While 
some work has happened so far in a semester, a lot of the plans in the 
manifesto are yet to even begin being implemented.
Article by Mohammed Burk and Yogitha Garlapati. Design by Rohit Dwivedula. Published 30th November, 2018

            

Campus News
SUC 2018-19






