08/07/2023Headers
SUC Report Card(2022-23): Shresth Gattani



            











The General Secretary, Shresth Gattani, built his campaign around reliability and the ability to cater to a large variety of demands by citing his previous experience in multiple fields. Has he managed to utilise these accumulated skills to their full potential?
Shresth has fulfilled 1/10 of his promises, with 7/10 still in progress. 2/10 unfulfilled.
You can find his manifesto here
1. Hygiene and Sanitation ( In Progress )
The General Secretary planned to improve the conditions of washrooms by ensuring regular cleaning, which has been carried out, with records having been set in place in the New Academic Block and elsewhere. The promise of installation of air fresheners in every hostel washroom, however, has not been fulfilled. Although the number of dustbins have increased in general, there are still not enough dustbins near the food outlets to prevent overflow. The restriction of dogs from entering hostels too has not been achieved, with dogs entering hostels and causing nuisance to the hostel residents.
2. Fest ( Not Fulfilled )
To some extent, relevant data has been collected from various clubs and departments to maximize participation for our fests by increasing publicity, but saying maximum participation has been achieved would be an overstatement. An events itinerary for fests, well in advance, has not been made with the itinerary for ATMOS being released only a day prior to the fest. The last-minute hassle has not been avoided during the fest, despite attempts to release funds a considerable amount of time before the fest.
3. Vendor Situation on Campus ( In Progress )
Vending machines are being timely restocked, and proper functioning has been ensured. The opening of a gadget/electronic repair shop and an optical store, despite trying, has not been done. 
4. Food Outlets ( In Progress )
Installation of sheds in front of the food outlets to improve the sitting experience during summer and monsoon and not been done entirely, although independent efforts have been made by the outlets themselves to improve the sitting experience. The introduction of franchisees of popular food chains has been done, although independently by the cafeteria. Food delivery services by food outlets have still not been resumed.
5. Campus Culture ( Fulfilled )
The General Secretary has promised to bring back old events such as the Moonlight Dinner and Sanskriti, resume our inter-bhawan cultural event Renaissance, and bring back food trucks on weekends. All these have been implemented to a large extent in his tenure, although the Moonlight Dinner was an independent initiative of the SMC. Food trucks were brought back almost every weekend with their corresponding events being conducted. Inter-college participation has also increased.
6. Student Awareness ( In Progress )
An Internal Complaints Committee has been set in place for students to be informed of their rights and the approach to take to deal with their complaints discreetly, as promised. Bodies like Queer Consortium and Gender Champions have been provided the support to spread awareness, although their exposure amongst the general body is not where it was intended to be.
7. General Initiatives ( In Progress )
The General Secretary has made several promises within this broad category and has managed to set up initiatives such that they will be implemented in the future. The removal of hostel intime signatures for girls was a successful campaign during his tenure by the concerned hostel representatives. Bringing e-bikes to campus, cheaper cab rides by collaboration with cab services, and integration of travel partners on the SU portal have not been achieved yet due to the absence of an SU portal for the latter. Despite approaching the management, he has not succeeded in extending library hours during non-exam periods. Although an online outstation portal exists on the SWD website, it appears non-functional. He has, however, managed to subsidise subscriptions on academic platforms, as promised.
8. Technical Initiatives ( In Progress )
The General Secretary promised to set aside a significant amount in the budget to ensure proper licensing for software required to maintain proper working speed.
 Knowing that a relatively limited number of students attend technical workshops, the General Secretary promised to increase participation and help fund these events. However, the participation of students in technical workshops and events has largely not increased significantly, despite attempts to increase awareness, independently or otherwise.
9. Mental Health ( Not Fulfilled )
The General Secretary promised to help students deal with mental health issues by increasing the frequency of psychiatrist visits and providing the GB access to professional career counselors. He stressed that the online-offline hybrid struggle had taken a toll on the student’s mental health and that readjustment to an entirely offline semester would mean that special emphasis would have to be placed. Despite his enthusiasm and efforts to fulfill his promises, he has not managed to act upon them. Independent efforts, however, are being made to address this issue.
10. Transparency ( In Progress )
The General Secretary promised to improve transparency in SUC operations by implementing a complaint/suggestion box that would be directed to him, such that he is directly answerable to the General Body. He planned to do this by integrating this box into the SU portal, which has not been fulfilled since the SU portal does not yet exist. Further, he also promised to keep the General Body informed of all financial decisions made by holding regular general body meetings. Although efforts have been made to fulfil this promise, all carried-out transactions have not been made public.

            








