01/12/2018Headers
SUC Report Cards 2018: Yashasvi Chennawar

Collaborate With The Clubs for Workshops: Fulfilled

Automatic Vending Machines for Sanitary Napkins: Fulfilled

Cultural and Sanskriti Magazines: In Progress

Creating a Culture of Martial Arts for Females: In Progress

Professionals Offering Classes for Special Skills: In Progress

Introduction of Mini Comic-Con, and Conducting Prom Night: In Progress

Increasing the Scale of Informal Events and Conducting Shangrila: In Progress

Initiation of Ethnic Food Fest: In Progress

Updating the GB on Cultural Activites: Not Fulfilled

More Magazine Subscriptions &amp; Sanskriti Magazine: Not Fulfilled

Anaemia Screening for Girls: Fulfilled

Women Specific Hackathons, Marathons and More: Not Fulfilled

Movies in Common Room: Not Fulfilled

Portal to Record Participation in Clubs: Not Fulfilled

Increase Participation in Literary Events During Renaissance: In Progress

Production House: Not Fulfilled

ME Freshers’ Night 2018: Not Fulfilled

Incentivising Pearl: In Progress

Outside The Manifesto



            











The Cultural Secretary (Female), Yashasvi Chennawar’s manifesto spoke  of 18 points out of which 3 were fulfilled, 8 are under progress and 7  have not been fulfilled yet.
The motive was to familiarise the freshers with the working of 
various clubs on campus and to ensure that the induction process was 
done smoothly. During the Fervour week, numerous workshops and events 
were conducted by the clubs, the schedule of which was extensively 
planned by the Cultural Secretary. (link to schedule)
This point is common to the manifestos of both, the Cultural 
Secretary (Girls) and the President. The necessary contacts were claimed
 to have been procured by the President and upon mutual agreement, the 
matter was taken forward by the President while she was asked to look 
after the Orientation programme. A sanitary napkin dispenser has been 
installed in the washroom in the library.
To celebrate the cultural diversity on campus and to bring out more 
participation from the regional associations, a team has been set up 
which has been set into working and bringing out a magazine which has 
faculty giving a few inputs. The magazine aims to document all the 
cultural events. This magazine is independent of Journal Club, and the 
Cultural Secretary claims she has assembled a separate team for it.
As of now, there is a martial arts class being conducted in the SAC 
which is an initiative taken up by the NSS, the Cultural Secretary has 
claimed to have approach a few individuals with professional training in
 order to conduct similar classes/workshops for females in the next 
semester depending on the number of enthusiasts.
The Cultural Secretary also stated that the SU intends to have a few 
classes conducted for skill development. Hopefully, these workshops will
 be conducted by seniors in various clubs who have received professional
 training. If not, there are plans of roping in a professional from 
outside the campus for a nominal fee, depending on the number of 
enthusiasts. The General Secretary has also asked about the interest of 
the General Body in specific skills recently.
The candidate plans on having a mini comic con on campus in the next 
semester but the feasibility of doing so depends entirely on the budget 
allocation. The prom night was conducted during the Fervour week for the
 BE freshers. The candidate has, besides scheduling the events, 
coordinated and roped in Red Bull as a sponsor.
The candidate intends to conduct various informal nights viz. 
dramatics, music, dance to name a few. Keeping in mind the commitments 
and priorities of the relevant clubs, the plan of having events on 3 
consecutive nights has been dropped for this semester. While the 
dramatics and music nights were conducted this semester, the rest of the
 events are slated to be conducted in the following semester.
The Cultural Secretary said intended to have food trucks which cater 
food celebrating various cultures during Shangrila or Sanskriti. She 
claims to have procured contacts and tried her best to bring in food 
trucks during Sanskriti, as a result of which there was a dosa and chaat stall amongst the other fast food stalls. While this was not exactly the promised “ethnic food fest”, it was a good start.
While Chennawar said that a group Culturals@BPHC
 already exists, it is not very active as of now due to the lack of 
awareness amongst the general body. She plans to float a notice 
regarding the same on BPHC Shoutbox in the beginning of the next 
semester and make the page active during Pearl. Here, the general body 
will be informed of all the cultural events taking place on campus. 
However, considering the fact that almost half the tenure of the SUC is 
done, and the page is yet to be active, this point clearly haasn’t been 
fulfilled this semester.
The Cultural Secretary intended to take subscriptions for magazines 
in hostels, similar to the existing newspapers in Bhawans. This hasn’t 
manifested yet. The Sanskriti Magazine being referred to in this point 
has been included in a previous point.
Anaemia screening was done in the first semester by the NSS in 
association with the Lions’ Club. The Cultural Secretary mentioned that 
she is ready to collaborate with NSS for the same and hopes to conduct a
 few more screening sessions in the next semester. The result of the 
first screening showed that the number of anaemic girls was zero and 
hence no food counter was set-up. If necessary she seemed confident of 
pushing for a separate counter specifically for the anaemic people. Such
 a counter (with green leafy vegetables) was set up last year as well, 
after a screening identifed low iron levels during her tenure as an SMC 
member.
She claims that this hasn’t been fulfilled so far due to a lack of 
participation and a packed schedule this semster. She is ready to 
conduct such events in the next semester if there is enough 
participation.
The chances of this being fulfilled are bleak mainly due to the issue
 of piracy. This was a concern that was also raised during Soapbox 
before elections last year. The only alternative offered by the 
candidate was to stream movies from YouTube.
The Cultural Secretary wants to create a portal similar to one on the
 SWD website wherein achievements are recorded. She also hopes to 
increase the travel reimbursement for the winners (currently 50%) if 
budget permits. However, the SWD achievements section is something that 
has existed before the start of this year, and has not been used much so
 far.
In order to increase participation, there is a plan of incentivising 
literary events during Renaissance, where additional points can be 
traded in for merchandise.
The production house was primarily intended to be a space for the 
performing clubs. This is still unfulfilled due to a lack of space. The 
Cultural Secretary was confident that a room would be allocated for it 
if she manages to find space for it.
The ME fresher night wasn’t conducted due to certain issues that 
arose with the postponement of the BE freshers’. She also claims to have
 spoken to a few ME students who have expressed hectic academic 
schedules as a reason for their lack of participation in the 
club-related activities on campus. Thus, a lack of incentives prevented 
this event from happening.
To improve participation in Pearl, there is a plan to award points to all the winners besides the prize money which can be traded off with Pearl merchandise against a fixed price.
Besides working on the points in her manifesto, Chennawar said that she worked on a variety of other initiatives, like:
Article by Yogitha Garlapati and Mohammed Burk. Published 1st December, 2018

            

Campus News
SUC 2018-19






