25/12/2018Headers
SUC Report Cards 2018: Sohith Deva

Sports Organizing Committee (SOC): Fulfilled

Professionalism to Sports on Campus: Fulfilled

Arena Curtain-Riser: Fulfilled

Enhancing the Sports Culture on Campus: In Progress

Improving the Athletics Culture: Fulfilled

Unconventional Sports: In Progress

Infrastructure Development: Fulfilled

Welfare and Aid to Sportspersons: Fulfilled

Pro-Am: Not Fulfilled

Outside the Manifesto



            











The Boys’ Sports Secretary, Sohith Deva’s manifesto aimed at the 
overall enhancement of the Sports culture on campus along with 
improvements to Arena. The manifesto spoke of 9 points out of which, 6 
are fulfilled, 2 are in progress and 1 has not been fulfilled yet. Click
 here to view the manifesto on the Election Commission Facebook Page.
A committee consisting of one representative from each sports team 
has been created to organize intra college fests such as Rixa and 
Blitzkrieg. As a result of the formation of this committee, the burden 
of conducting intra college fests has been removed from the team 
captains who now have more time to focus on their teams. The SOC managed
 to conduct 7 events this year when compared to 2 events last year in 
Rixa. They also handled the logistics for the sports contingents who 
participated in colleges outside.
This point in the manifesto planned to “conduct friendly matches with
 sports clubs and associations like HCA”. The Sports Secretary said that
 he has spoken to HCA and they are ready to play with the cricket team 
of our campus but the main match has been postponed to the next 
semester. The Sports Secretary stated that the chess teams have 
participated in a FIDE tournament and that the Basketball team has 
played matches with the ACDS Club.  The manifesto point also talked of 
organising events in collaboration with RedBull (such as 3v3 Basketball 
and 5v5 Football
 – 5v5 football was organised this semester). The manifesto point also 
talked of conducting Box Cricket matches in collaboration with 
GroundWaala – the Sports Secretary said that this event happened this 
semester and posted online notices about the same.
As a segment of pre-Arena events, a contingent from IIT Hyderabad 
came to our campus along with a couple of sports matches which were 
played against CBIT. In the first week of the next semester, there is 
going to be a contingent from NIFT Hyderabad which is going to be coming
 in.
Every team captain was given the chance during the freshmen 
orientation in the beginning of the semester. The notice boards for 
every sports room in SAC along with a trophy case hasn’t happened as of 
yet as they were not included in the budget for this semester.
The grounds of the Telangana Sports School in Hakimpet have been available to the Athletics team which goes and practises there.
This point stated that “workshops for unconventional sports and games
 such as kho-kho, archery, and skating” would be conducted, with the aim
 of introducing these sports on campus.  The Sports Secretary pointed 
out that a skating rink is being made in the present location of the 
Infinity Pool. A CS:GO Event was conducted. For Kho-Kho the ground is 
currently being levelled which will soon be started as an informal 
sport. Considering that the equipment for Archery is expensive, the 
Secretary hopes to take advantage of the campaign for Archery in South 
India and said that he has also spoken to the Secunderabad Club 
regarding this.
This point promised for “a method for providing regular feedback” 
will be implemented and that “updates to the sports inventory will be 
made on a regular basis”. The point also went on to promise the 
availability of coaches for all sports and “maintenance and proper 
management of grounds”. While most sports now have coaches, some sports 
like Carrom and Squashdo do not. For every team, 8 coaching sessions 
have been arranged before Arena and a couple more during the semester. 
The Sports Secretary also said that a record is maintained at SAC to 
keep track of the inventory relating to every sport and that the grounds
 are also being maintained on a regular basis. This year, the Basketball
 and Tennis courts are also being repaved, an initiative by the 
administration.
This point in the manifesto promised for travel concessions for teams
 that went to tournaments outside to represent our college and for free 
health kits for players during Arena. The Sports Secretary said that 
this year the teams that went to BOSM were given a travel reimbursement 
of 70% which was possible because the Southern Railway sponsored them. 
He also mentioned that Free Medical kits would be distributed to team 
captains during Arena, and that an MoU with Biological E Ltd has already
 been signed for the same.
The manifesto stated that Pro-Am would be an “intra college event” 
where “amateur teams will have a chance to challenge the college team”. 
Slated as an event that would encourage amateurs to join the team, this 
event according to the manifesto would conducted before Arena. The 
sports secretary stated that matches against the sports teams will be 
held in the beginning of the next semester.

            

Campus News
SUC 2018-19






