23/04/2020Headers
The Hitchhiker’s Guide to Surviving a Lockdown



            











The quarantine can get really boring and you must most definitely be looking for productive ways to spend your time. We at the Journal Club have compiled a list of online courses that you could try out to learn something new and explore some interesting fields of study.
Artificial Intelligence:
Offered By: Stanford University
Difficulty Level: Beginner
Machine learning comprises a study of algorithms that help the system perform certain tasks without having to be programmed with explicit instructions. These systems purely rely on patterns and inferences.
An introductory course to Machine Learning taught by Andrew Ng, one of the pioneers in the field. The course starts from the very basics of the field such as Regression algorithms and builds up to advanced algorithms such as Neural Networks. The only possible downside to this course is that the assignments are to be done in MATLAB/ OCTAVE, this is quite redundant and outdated because most of the Machine Learning practitioners have shifted to Python.
Offered By: deeplearning.ai
Difficulty Level: Intermediate
Deep Learning is a subset of Machine Learning which mainly focuses on neural networks.
This five-course specialization takes you through the various aspects of understanding a neural network and the different varieties in it. With the mini-projects that are part of the course, you learn to build some really interesting applications such as cat vs. dog classifiers to analyze sequence and time-series data.
Offered By: University of Alberta
Difficulty Level: Advanced
Reinforcement Learning also comes under the broader umbrella of machine learning but in this field, the notion of a reward is introduced. The system in any given environment has to work in such a way that it optimizes the reward. This is modeled in a similar fashion in which little kids are taught.
Reinforcement Learning is one of the most edge fields of Machine Learning. This course assumes that you have some prior knowledge in the field and builds on top of that. The course is well structured with equal parts of theory and practical coding practice. It is the best way to enter the field of Reinforcement Learning.
Coding Languages
Difficulty Level: Beginner
Codeacademy is one of the best places to learn a new programming language. It’s easy to navigate the user interface and tests at the end of every lesson help you learn with ease. They offer a course in Python 3, you can check that out here. The course starts from scratch, it assumes that the student has no prior coding knowledge.
It teaches the basics of the language such as the syntax and the common data structures, slowly builds up to functions and classes. This also covers a lot of important concepts from the object-oriented programming paradigm.
Difficulty Level: Beginner
Java is one of the most popular languages, it also is the preferred language for the Object Object Programming course offered by our university. The website here is one of the best resources online to learn the language.
Algorithms and Data Structures
What is imperative when it comes to knowledge in data structures and algorithms is the number of questions that you have practiced, not the certifications or the courses that you have completed. A good place to start would be here. Start with problems labeled A and once you have gained enough experience, move on to problems of higher difficulty such as B and later on C.
It is also important to focus on the theory to be able to solve questions with ease.
Offered By: Princeton University
Difficulty Level: Intermediate
This course believes that you have some prior experience in coding (at least that you have completed CS F111). It starts from the very basics of data structures such as Stacks and Queues and moves on to explain the basic sorting algorithms.
In the second course, you are taught about graphs and graph-based algorithms such as Depth-First  and Breadth-First .
Computational Fluid Dynamics and Aerodynamics:
Offered By: CornellX
Instructor: Rajesh BhaskaranThis introductory course in computational methods introduces you to the Finite Element Method (FEM) and Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD). The course is interactive and introduces you to the ANSYS environment. Some degree of math is involved, so it is recommended to have a basic background in Calculus, especially Differential Equations.
Offered By: IIT Kharagpur
Instructor: Dr. Suman ChakrabortyThis course teaches CFD is comparatively greater depth than the previous course and involves advanced mathematics (especially Partial Differential Equations). Some parts of the course also involve concepts from Classical Mechanics which can be learnt as the course proceeds. It is a 60-lecture playlist, available both on the NPTEL website and YouTube.(Highly recommended for Mechanical Engineering students who are seeking an entry point into CFD studies)
Nuclear and Particle Physics:
Offered By: MEPhiX
Instructor: Yuri VolkovThis introductory course in Nuclear Physics is ideal for people who want to learn about the subject without delving too deep into it.  It covers basic processes in a nuclear reactor and a few important reactor parameters.
Offered By: IIT Guwahati
Instructor: Dr. P. PouloseThis course gives a rather deeper insight into the subject as compared to the above-mentioned course. This course covers electroweak interactions in much detail, with the inclusion of appropriate equations and math wherever applicable.
Lecture Recordings From Stanford University
Instructor: Leonard SuskindLeonard Suskind is the founding director of the Stanford Institute for Theoretical Physics. He has been one of the pioneering personalities in theoretical physics and this series of 10 videos of approximately 2 hours each intends to introduce you to all the basic concepts involved in Particle Physics. It is a fairly long course and may not suit casual learners’ interests. However, if you are further interested in the topic after the completion of courses, you may watch 10 more lectures of New Revolutions in Particle Physics: Standard Model which is a continuation of the Basic Concepts playlist.
Quantum Physics:
Offered By: MIT
Instructor(s): Prof. Allan Adams (+2)With an official course code of 8.04 at MIT, this course introduces you to wave mechanics and Schrodinger’s equation in 1D and 3D. This is the first of the three-course set taught at MIT. Unlike many OCW courses, this course has video lectures along with lecture notes and problem sets.If you are interested to further pursue the subject after the completion of this course, there are two courses that follow this course, Quantum Mechanics II and Quantum Mechanics III.  QM III, unfortunately, does not have video lectures, but lecture notes and assignments are available on the OCW website.
Offered By: Stanford  
Instructor: Leonard SuskindThis comprehensive playlist would help you gain a fairly thorough understanding of Quantum Physics. The course takes you through Classical Mechanics, Quantum Mechanics, Relativity, Particle Physics, String Theory, and everything in between. Look out for the playlist posted by ‘Chaz K. Shand’ as a brief break-up of the modules is given in the description of his playlist. You can then choose to selectively complete the topics of your interest. The above listed two particle physics playlists are also a part of this master playlist.
Miscellaneous Courses in Engineering :
This takes you through the fundamentals of aerodynamics, the SimScale platform, and teaches you about the design and optimization of the rear wing of an F1 car. There are further insights into R&amp;D in the motorsport industry.
Offered by: DelftX
This course introduces one to Hyperloop – the ambitious new technology first proposed by Elon Musk in 2013. The course covers basic hyperloop concepts, including but not limited to propulsion, braking, and other necessary pod and track infrastructure. It also touches upon policy decisions involved and gives a brief overview of development into this new technology.This course is majorly taught by students of the Delft Hyperloop student team. This course only serves to inspire interest in this particular technology.
Offered By: IITBX
LaTeX is a document preparation system, which is heavily used in academia as well as several areas of industry. It’s a powerful open-source system that lets one edit any type of document – from resumes to research papers. Its utility is realized while incorporating equations and code in documents.BPHC also has a group – LaTeX@BPHC for doubt-solving and other tips.
Spoken Languages
Duolingo is a great application to learn languages, but learning through flashcards can get boring. Here’s a compiled list of places that offer video material to learn a language.
Difficulty Level: Beginner
Alliance Francaise is the best in the game for learning French online. Although their material is paid for, you can avail of their one-month free trial.
Difficulty Level: Beginner
SpanishDict is an amazing website that starts from the very basics of the language. Teaching you how to start a conversation and moves to teach you how to hold it. It also teaches some important and difficult topics such as verb conjugations.
Difficulty Level: Beginner
JapanesePod101 is one of the best websites out there to learn Japanese. It allows you to choose your current level and learn accordingly.
Difficulty Level: Beginner
There are easier methods to learning Italian than to catch a flight to Rome like Elizabeth Gilbert, trust me. Although the idea of that does sound fascinating, if you are facing some budget constraints, you can always try._.

Other Interesting Courses:
 Offered By: The University of Pennsylvania
 Difficulty Level: Beginner
This could be extremely interesting for all you Rick Riordan fanboys. The course uses Homer’s epic “Odyssey” as a case study to explain various features of this mythology.
Offered By: Yale University
Difficulty Level: Beginner
In this introductory course that aims to give a certificate for judging your friends, you will learn about some major theories put forward by Freud and Skinner. It also introduces you to the exciting fields of neuroscience and cognition.
Offered By: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Difficulty Level: BeginnerThis course does not presume any knowledge of legal terminology. It starts with learning how to read cases and how one can learn from real-life disputes. It then progresses to some important laws that have been enacted.
Offered By: University of Arizona
An introductory course in astronomy, this requires no pre-requisites. It also brings you up to date with the most recent astronomical discoveries while giving a brief insight into the vast studies in astronomy. 

            








