20/02/2020Headers
The Chronicles of the Meet: SMC and The Chief Warden
Mess 2 Complaints
Mess 1 Complaints
General Issues



            











In response to the complaints over the mess management over the past few days, members of the Student Mess Council organized a meeting between the SMC, the Managers of Mess 1 and Mess 2 and the administration represented by Dr. CP Kiran, the Chief Warden on the 20th of February 2020. A representative from the Student’s Welfare Division and two representatives from Journal Club were invited to the meet as well. The SMC said that roughly ten such meetings with the admin were organised over this academic year to discuss various mess related issues. 
The meeting had three major sections:
The primary complaint against Mess 2 was the issue of feathers being found in the chicken dishes served on Sunday (16/02) and Wednesday (19/02). The meeting began with an apology and an explanation from the manager of Mess 2 about the process of preparing their chicken dishes wherein the pre-cut pre-washed meat is weighed, washed again by the mess before preparation. He stated that the vendor of the meat was called after the first incident and the cleaning process was done in his presence. The Manager went on to say that the matter was an issue with the stock the vendor provided and that they have spoken to them regarding the same. A point learnt during the meet was that the vendor supplying chicken was the same for both messes. The actions suggested during the meet were as follows:
The second complaint with respect to Mess 2 brought up was with respect to an allegation that a mess personnel attempted to coerce a student into deleting the post about the feather found in the Sunday Chicken Biriyani. The Chief Warden said that this issue would not be taken lightly and that it would be investigated severely. The Chief Warden reiterated the GB’s right to complain about the food and said that very severe action against Mess 2 would be taken if the claim was found to be accurate. 
The complaints over the issues with Mess 1 were brought up next. First up, the issue about the impromptu changes in the menu of Mess 1 was brought up. The SMC did accept that there was some miscommunication between all parties over the sudden changes in the menu and accepted fault over the same. The Mess Manager also brought up the fact that certain items on the menu created certain extenuating circumstances that forced a menu change (for example, Dosa on Friday’s special dinner was incompatible with serving Idly on Friday’s snacks). 
A member of the Journal Club subsequently pointed out that changes to the menu this year were more often than the last few years. The Chief Warden asked the SMC to keep track of the number of times a menu change happened due to the mess’ fault and that multiple such incidents would lead to fines. However, the Chief Warden did also say that in the case of non-availability of certain items – the mess should put up a notice of the same corroborated by the SMC well in advance. He emphasized that this rule would not be hard and fast and that menus would be created in a fair manner for all parties and asked the mess managers to ensure that they are able to deliver on the new mess menu consistently even in summer months, where scarcities of certain vegetables are likely.  A member of the SMC said that a new menu would be created soon, probably next week, and promised that issues related to miscommunication would not happen again.
Secondly, the issue of a nail stuck in an aloo tikki and a serving of bhel according to a complaint in January was taken very seriously by the Chief Warden. The issue of a stone in a serving of chole was also brought up. The Chief Warden stated that this was clearly an issue of major negligence by the Mess and that he would bring this up with the Dean – Administration and call for major consequences. 

            

Campus News
Administration, Mess, SMC






