VII. CERTAIN INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING REGISTRATION

1. While making your Timetable, please ENSURE:

 

to include the Tutorial hours of courses in your Timetable. to include test date, day & hour, comprehensive date of all courses in the blank Timetable/Examination Schedule. that you have provision for lunch hour on all days (lunch hours are 4, 5 and 6)

2. If you are registering for Elective courses, refer to Section V of the Timetable on “Suggestions for choosing electives”.

3. Project Type Courses If you have an elective slot, it should be filled with the allotted project type course. If you get any change in project course allotment by Associate Dean, AUGSD, after registration, you must substitute the same with a registered course.

4. Offering of elective courses with inadequate registration may be unilaterally cancelled. If you are registered for such a course, it will be removed from your registered courses unless a request for substitution is made within prescribed time.

5. If you register in any course for which you are not eligible, your registration for that course will be cancelled unilaterally and you will be awarded ‘RC’ in such a course unless a request for substitution is made within prescribed time, and substitution is permitted.

6. If there is a need of amendment in your Registration, ensure that it is properly incorporated in ERP.

7. If a higher degree student desires to change prescribed courses, then he/she requires the approval from AGSRD.

8. It is required that you meet your respective Registration advisor before registering for electives.

A student may avail a maximum of 3 Project courses to meet the Discipline Electives Requirement under the head of (Discipline) Electives with the following limitations:

(a) All of these Project type courses should be

(i) within the Discipline (for which the degree is being awarded) or (ii) from an allied Discipline if so specified by the Department offering the degree

(b) The projects may be chosen from under these sub-heads.

(i) Study Projects (maximum of 1) (ii) Laboratory (maximum of 2) (iii) Design Projects (maximum of 2) (iv) Special Projects (maximum of 1)

A student may avail a maximum of 3 Project type courses (under any of the heads mentioned above offered by any discipline as an Open Elective. However, in total a student may avail at most 5 Project type courses against Electives slots in any category.

VIII. LIBRARY, EDD NOTES AND CAMPUS BOOK STORE:

Central Library Facilities: There is no separate library card to borrow library books. The ID card issued by SWD also serves as the library card. However, all the students have to register with the library before borrowing books.

 All the Library services are fully automated with RFID Technology

 Students can borrow Ten books for two weeks.

 Students can have access to the library catalogue and e-resources from the hostel rooms.

 Wi-Fi facility is available in the library.