Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani Hyderabad Campus

SECOND SEMESTER 2023-2024 Course Handout - Part II

Date: 09.1.2024

In addition to Part I (General Handout for all courses) printed on Page 1 of the timetable book; this portion gives further specific details regarding the course.

Course No: BIO F111

Course Title: General Biology

Instructor-in-Charge: K. N. MOHAN

Instructors (Lectures): K. N. Mohan, Pragya Komal, Amartya Sanyal, Nishith Gupta

Instructors (Tutorials): Amartya Sanyal, Debashree Bandyopadhyay, Kavi Devaraj, Nisith Kumar Gupta, Sankar Ganesh, Pragya Komal, Ruchi Jain, Shuvadeep Maity, Suprati, Ghosh

Course Description: This is an introductory/ foundation level course, where students are expected to learn about living systems and their properties, major biological compounds, basic biochemical and physiological processes. Students will also get introduced to genetics and recombinant DNA technology and their applications in daily life. While designing the course, care has been taken to relate the principles of biology with other science and engineering disciplines, wherever possible.

Scope and Objective: Some students question the need for a course in biology, especially when their area of study is not related to biology (or science). However, it is becoming increasingly important to understand the nature of science and fundamental biological concepts for any person, regardless of his or her occupation. In this context, through this course it has been intended to impart knowledge on biological system with respect to nature, behavior and functioning of the cell. Further, this course has also been designed to make the student understand intricate relationship that living organisms have with their environment, at the molecular level, so that impact of modern biological research can be understood and appreciated by them. It is expected that at the end of this course, students would become aware of the influence of biology in almost every aspect of their lives.

Intended Learning Outcomes: After successful completion of this course, students will be able to but not limited to:

❖ Comprehend various aspects of biology ❖ Understand biomolecules, and enzymes ❖ Outline cell structure and function ❖ Appreciate biochemical pathways ❖ Explain molecular basis of heredity and genetic diversity ❖ Apply biotechnology to some aspects of daily life ❖ Compare and contrast material exchanges in human body ❖ Examine human body’s control mechanism including reproduction

Text Book: TB: Simon, E.J. et. al. Campbell Essential Biology with Physiology (5th edition). Noida: Pearson India Education Services Pvt. Ltd., 2016.

Reference Books: RB1: Eldon D. Enger, Frederick C. Ross and David B. Bailey, Concepts in Biology, 14th Edition (BITS Pilani, Custom Edition) Tata McGraw Hill Publishing Company Limited, 2012. RB2: Peter H. Raven, George B. Johnson, Jonathan B. Losos, Susan R. Singer Biology, 7th Edition. WBC McGraw Hill, 2005. RB2: C. Starr, Biology: Concept and application, 6th Edition, Thomson Learning.