27-28 Stereochemistry 29-30 Substitution reactions 31-32 Elimination reactions 33-34 Electrocyclic reactions S.S. Introduction to coordination compounds 35-36 VB theory and 37-39 Crystal field theory for octahedral complexes Jahn-Teller distortions; square planar and tetrahedral complexes Isomerism, chirality, origin of optical activity, stereochemistry of cyclic compounds, resolution. Nucleophilic substitution reactions (both SN1 and SN2) of alkyl halides. Elimination reactions of alkyl halides; Hoffmann and Cope elimination. Introduction to pericyclic reactions with emphasis on electrocyclic reactions Double salts and coordination compounds. Werner’s work; identification of structure by isomer counting. Effective atomic no. concept. (Self-study) Explanation for the stability of complexes according to crystal field theory. How do geometrical distortions stabilize the system? Stability in other geometries. Define stereochemistry, outline different types of isomerism, differentiate between configurational and conformational isomers, enantiomers, chirality, specific diastereomers, meso rotation, compounds and racemic mixtures, designate the R and S configurations, explain geometrical isomerism, optical resolution. List the types of substitution reactions (mechanism). Analyse the role of substrate, solvent and nucleophile. optical activity, Outline the types of elimination reactions. Explain the difference between Hoffman vs Zeitsev product. Identify the importance of substrate, solvent and base. Examine difference between nucleophile and base; Hoffman and Cope elimination mechanism. Compare substitution and elimination reactions. Identifying pericyclic reactions and various types of pericyclic reactions. Electrocyclic reaction types and conditions. Understanding the outcome of electrocyclic reactions by FMO approach. Demonstrate and well-founded knowledge of structure and bonding theories relevant to inorganic molecular compounds. Interpret Werner’ theory, coordination compound, ligand and valency, describe coordination compounds, deduct the effective atomic number. comprehensive Explain and measure the stabilities of complexes using the crystal field splitting theory. Interpret Jahn-Teller distortion. Formulate the crystal field theory to understand square planar and tetrahedral complexes. T2: 5.1-5.13, 5.15-5.18, 7.2 T2: 6.2-6.13 T2: 6.15-6.19, 7.5-7.8, 20.12 Lecture notes T3: p194-201 (S.S.) T3: p203-213 T3: p214-222