E D I T O R ' S  N O T E
C A M P U S  M A P
S U R V I V A L  G U I D E  
M E N T A L  H E A L T H  G U I D E
L O C A T I O N S
I N T E R A C T I O N S
T Y P E S  O F  B I T S I A N S
B I T S  L I N G O
I M P O R T A N T  C O N T A C T S
I M P O R T A N T  L I N K S / S O C I A L  
E X P L A I N I N G  A C A D E M I C S
C L U B S ,  D E P S ,  A S S O C S
C  B L O C K
C O M M I T T E E S ,  C O U N C I L S ,  A N D
F O R U M S
F E S T S
F O O D
T R A V E L
C R E D I T S
    M E D I A    
INDEX
Editor's Note:
This magazine is meant to help you settle into college and learn
how to navigate its various labyrinthian aspects. We have tried
to include information about most of the topics you would have
questions about or need help with, and also some personal
opinions about life here on campus. To best use this magazine,
make sure you go through it once and mark all the things you are
interested in checking out. We have included a handy map and a
checklist for things you might need to make your first few days
here less turbulent.
The people you meet here and the memories you make will
shape who you become as an adult. You have a myriad of
opportunities, but you’ll have to dive headfirst to make the best
of them. Don’t be afraid to step out of your comfort zone and
spread those wings; you’ll be surprised to see how much of
yourself you still haven’t discovered.
It’s a chaotic world out there, and sometimes you might even
feel out of place, but once you find your comfort in this chaos,
you’ll never want to live without it. So go out and socialize.
These next few years in BITS are going to change your lives in
ways you can’t imagine. There will be many ups, and few downs
no doubt, but always remember that you are not alone. We hope
that the tidbits of the campus culture we could show through
this magazine will help better prepare you for your journey
ahead. Good luck!
Hello to our newest batch of Bitsians! First of all, congrats
on making it to BPHC and surviving the dreadful JEE period.
We’re all very excited to meet you guys, and on that note,
we proudly present to you the Freshers’ magazine for 2023!
While we await your arrival, we’ve tried our best to give you
a glimpse of all the magic BPHC offers and give you a head-
start on-campus culture.
- Gurumurthy  & Anand
V
i
p
e
r'
s 
L
a
n
e
Marine Drive
Lover's Lane
E
n
t
r
a
n
c
e
Chess Lawn
New Acad
Workshop
A
u
d
i
t
o
r
i
u
m
RNT
Ol
d A
ca
d
Library
Rock garden
Ganga
Krishna
Ram
Shankar
Valmiki
Chipotle
Mess 1
Vishwakarma
Nescafe
Mess 2
SFC
WP
C3
Vyas
OFG
Hockey
Infinity Pool
CP
VV
Amul
Hotspot
Gandhi
Budh
Gautam
Meera
Malaviya
SAC
Courts
NFG
Pool
Cricket
Staff Quarters
Survival Guide
Calculator - the casio fx-991 EX is the most popular one
Curtains - you'll need them if you like your privacy
Laundry Bags - to carry clothes to CP or the dhobiwala who comes to hostels
Lab Coats - the blue one for workshop practice, white for chem and bio labs
Extension Boards - your table has just two near it
Bucket and mug - showers do not have hot water, but hot water is available at
most times from a tap
Dustbin - for cleanliness
Mattresses - sold near your hostels if you choose to purchase on arriving
Calculator - the casio fx-991 EX is the most popular one
Curtains - you'll need them if you like your privacy
Laundry Bags - to carry clothes to CP or the dhobiwala who comes to hostels
Lab Coats - the blue one for workshop practice, white for chem and bio labs
Extension Boards - your table has just two near it
Bucket and mug - showers do not have hot water, but hot water is available at
most times from a tap
Dustbin - for cleanliness
Mattresses - sold near your hostels if you choose to purchase on arriving
Lan Cable - not all hostel rooms get good wifi speeds
Locks - one for your almirah, one shared for your room,
keep your rooms locked when you go out
Whiteboard marker and duster - make sure to use your
whiteboard well!
Night Lamps - buy one if you study late at night to not
disturb others
Lan Cable - not all hostel rooms get good wifi speeds
Locks - one for your almirah, one shared for your room,
keep your rooms locked when you go out
Whiteboard marker and duster - make sure to use your
whiteboard well!
Night Lamps - buy one if you study late at night to not
disturb others
UPI - the ATM only dispenses 500 rupee notes 
Facebook - it has groups on which club announcements,
interaction with alumni or buying/selling items takes
place
Smart Campus - allows you to use the All Night
Canteen as well as order merchandise with the
advances you pay, extra money spent will have to be
paid the next semester with fees
UPI - the ATM only dispenses 500 rupee notes 
Facebook - it has groups on which club announcements,
interaction with alumni or buying/selling items takes
place
Smart Campus - allows you to use the All Night
Canteen as well as order merchandise with the
advances you pay, extra money spent will have to be
paid the next semester with fees
Locations
Familiarize yourself with class locations, especially F and G Blocks 
Your lecture, tutorial and lab class room numbers will be
available in the timetable document sent
Explore CP (Connaught Place), and find out about the types of
products sold in each store
Familiarize yourself with class locations, especially F and G Blocks 
Your lecture, tutorial and lab class room numbers will be
available in the timetable document sent
Explore CP (Connaught Place), and find out about the types of
products sold in each store
Important Items
Other Aspects
You will need to find a balance between attending classes and managing club work,
sports or any other activities and skills you might want to pick up.  
There is no one fixed solution to this balance, it varies from person to person based on
how long you take to learn, how many clubs you want to join, what skills you want to
pick up and in general what exactly you aim to pick up from college . 
Another small piece of advice I would like to share is to not hold inhibitions in
approaching professors.
You will need to find a balance between attending classes and managing club work,
sports or any other activities and skills you might want to pick up.  
There is no one fixed solution to this balance, it varies from person to person based on
how long you take to learn, how many clubs you want to join, what skills you want to
pick up and in general what exactly you aim to pick up from college . 
Another small piece of advice I would like to share is to not hold inhibitions in
approaching professors.
A Small Note
Coming to college is a fresh start, after your two (or more) years of
JEE prep, and you may feel tempted to take it easy., but make sure
to attend classes. Trying to cram the night before is a near
impossible task and attending classes makes those few days before
exams much less stressful. 
Coming to college is a fresh start, after your two (or more) years of
JEE prep, and you may feel tempted to take it easy., but make sure
to attend classes. Trying to cram the night before is a near
impossible task and attending classes makes those few days before
exams much less stressful. 
Dead 
   Men
         Te No 
           Tas
Dead 
   Men
         Te No 
           Tas
All professors are highly capable in their fields and you will learn not only about the
subject but also the field by attending classes.  
Tutorials are definitely a must attend, with problem solving which forms a crucial aspect
of many courses. 
All professors are highly capable in their fields and you will learn not only about the
subject but also the field by attending classes.  
Tutorials are definitely a must attend, with problem solving which forms a crucial aspect
of many courses. 
Do not be afraid to ask doubts in class (most professors try their 
best to answer all doubts and do not belittle you for doubts) or outside it. 
Do not be afraid to ask doubts in class (most professors try their 
best to answer all doubts and do not belittle you for doubts) or outside it. 
Asking your doubts or queries about the subject or otherwise is a great way to gain
knowledge from professors who have immense experience and also to build connections.  
Every professor has a website (which you can find by searching for the professors name
followed by bits Hyderabad), go through them before picking class sections, and do your
own research instead of blindly following any one senior's advice on who to take. .
You will be joining a college with an immense alumni network, seniors who 
are very helpful and many things to pursue . Make the most of your four 
years here . Follow your interests but also make sure to have fun .
Asking your doubts or queries about the subject or otherwise is a great way to gain
knowledge from professors who have immense experience and also to build connections.  
Every professor has a website (which you can find by searching for the professors name
followed by bits Hyderabad), go through them before picking class sections, and do your
own research instead of blindly following any one senior's advice on who to take. .
You will be joining a college with an immense alumni network, seniors who 
are very helpful and many things to pursue . Make the most of your four 
years here . Follow your interests but also make sure to have fun .
You can use your first year to try to find this balance, but do not neglect your academics.
Having a high CGPA will help you in many more ways than you may realize in your first
year, so try your best to keep it as high as possible. 
Use your first few weeks to find out as much as you can about the different clubs,
associations, sports teams which are present on campus and keep a special note on the
ones that interest you . You will find a very talented and diverse group of students on
campus, try to speak to those who share similar interests as it's a great way to make
new friends and build upon your interests. 
You can use your first year to try to find this balance, but do not neglect your academics.
Having a high CGPA will help you in many more ways than you may realize in your first
year, so try your best to keep it as high as possible. 
Use your first few weeks to find out as much as you can about the different clubs,
associations, sports teams which are present on campus and keep a special note on the
ones that interest you . You will find a very talented and diverse group of students on
campus, try to speak to those who share similar interests as it's a great way to make
new friends and build upon your interests. 
Using the Wifi and LAN is very straight forward, you'll be given
a username and password to login to the BITS gateway portal. 
Your username will be of the form f2023xxxx' with the last 4
digits being the same as the last 4 digits of your id number.
Your password will be of the form 'fd$xxxxxxxx' with the digits
being your BITSAT application number. 
Your internet session expires after every 24 hours, and you
need to login using the gateway link again. Connecting to the
LAN requires you to connect an Ethernet cable to the port in
your room.
INTERNET AND DC++
The campus has provisions for internet in the form of LAN ports and Wifi Routers,
in hostels and academic block. A great rule is to set up LAN in your room, as Wifi
signals depend on luck and the position of your room.
 DC++ gives you access to movies, games, and TV Shows on the entertainment side
and courses, video lectures, and books on the academics side. DC or DC++ is a
software that helps you share files over the campus LAN. It has several TeraBytes of
data shared across the campus at any instant over multiple genres and fields.
The campus WiFi has several restrictions and a daily data limit, which you might
struggle with if you want to download/upload a lot. 
DC++ is locally hosted on the LAN, which allows you to upload and download files
without spending the internet, and there are no limits on the data exchange. Say you
download a 4 GB movie; you can share it with all of campus, thus saving data for
many people.
Download 
the 
DC++ 
client 
from 
this 
URL:
https://dcplusplus.sourceforge.io/
Register and share the minimum limit of files to access
[usually, the minimum limit is 1 GB]
We recommend creating a separate folder for DC++ in your
disk space; sharing that is easier.
Type 172.16.137.131 or 172.16.142.163 for StrapHub or CornHub. 
You should see the selected Hub linked to the IP as active.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
A detailed description with images is also given in the QR code: 
DC++
I remember my first few weeks on campus vividly, getting lost on the way to
physics lab and wondering why everybody said 'lite' in every second sentence. You
start to discover the freedom that college provides ("wait so we don't have to be
back in the hostel until 2 am?") while at the same time figure out the nitty-gritties
of hostel life. An exciting time, for sure. Although, if you find yourselves being
overwhelmed by it all, well don't worry, you're neither the first nor the last person
to feel this way. 
There you are, a starry eyed fresher, going through this magazine and perhaps
hoping it'll make navigating the fast-paced world of college a little bit easier. Well,
firstly, congratulations on getting accepted into BITS! The fever dream of coaching
classes and entrance exams is finally over. You've seen your last 'JEE organic
chemistry one shot' video and written your last mock test. No more surfing Quora
and reading college reviews, no more googling 'expected BITSAT cutoffs', you
made it! A new chapter in your life awaits. 
In this article, I'm sharing what I tried to keep in mind during my first year and
what worked for me, hope it'll be of some use to you as well :)
Don't spend all your time in your room (don't anchor yourself
there). The world outside will appear daunting, and it might be
tempting to hole yourselves up in your room and start yet
another show on Netflix. But trust me, you will regret this later.
College is all about having new experiences and stepping out of
your comfort zone, one baby step at a time. Go check out what
our campus has to offer, from the clubs to the many food outlets.
Dear Fresher,
 
Dear Fresher,
 
(quest idea: go locate the Philosopher's Stone). Make an effort to talk to people.
It's okay to be anxious, the other person probably feels the same way.
Don't get too caught up in the academic competition here. This might get to you
once the first cycle of quizzes begins. All you need to focus on is taking your time
to figure out what methods work for you and studying the course accordingly. 
Lastly, remember everyone around you is going through the same experience you
are and will, more or less, face similar issues. Whether it's trying to adjust to
hostel life ("I want to go home where my mom has breakfast ready for me even
when I wake up at 11") or getting your heart broken over your latest crush ("I don't
think he knows I exist"), you will always find a friend who can relate. Discover the
therapeutic effect of ranting about shared problems with a friend (the therapeutic
quotient  increases if this rant session is taking place on a bench in your hostel QT
at 2 am). You will never truly be alone here on campus.
 I suggest keeping a distance of minimum ten meters at all times from that one
classmate whose vocabulary is limited to "bro how much did you get in that quiz?".
Muting those academic whatsapp groups with their never-ending 'charchas' about
marks and grades helps as well. A special shoutout to all the dualites - you might
find yourselves constantly calculating your cg but don't make it a habit. Just do the
best you can and in the end, you'll be just fine. 
Learning to juggle extracurriculars and academics. From
cultural clubs to tech ones, from sports teams to fest
departments, there's something here for everyone (yes,
there's even a frisbee team). Explore different opportunities
and over time, you'll learn how to prioritize. Just be mindful
of how much you've got on your plate and whether you can
take more. Added to this is the pressure of socializing. This
is easier said than done but just be who you are and try to
get a chance to talk to whoever you think is cool.
Eventually, you'll find your people, your hearties <3. 
Right now, you're just starting out and it's natural to feel lost, both literally ("what
do you mean that way leads to F block, it says it's the entrance to D block") and
figuratively. But give it a month or two and soon, you'll settle in and get the hang
of it. You'll finally have your ID number on the tip of your tongue and know
exactly which outlet makes which type of Maggi the best. And even then, you
might have days when it all feels like too much. On such days, remember Monisha
is always somewhere around, waiting for your affectionate pats, and there will
always be brownie ice cream at Fruitful to cheer you up. (And yes, you'll get all
these references in due time.)
Welcome to your Bhawan
Hey, let me tell you about the hostels on our campus!  There are 9 boys' hostels
and 3 girls' hostels here, with most of them being single occupancy. Their names
are as follows: Ram Bhawan, Budh Bhawan, Krishna Bhawan, Gandhi Bhawan,
Shankar Bhawan, Vyas Bhawan, Vishwakarma Bhawan, Gautam Bhawan, Meera
Bhavan, Malviya Bhawan, and Ganga Bhawan.
                                                                                 
MAKE YOURSELF AT HOME!
The best part is that our campus is fully
residential, so you can immerse yourself in
the college experience! We only allow day
scholars in special cases, so those
Hyderabadi folks dreaming of being day
scholars might have to rethink their plans. 
Anyway, all the hostels have some stuff in
common. You'll find vending machines
stocked with yummy snacks and drinks, and
also each one has a QT where you can get
your game on with badminton or volleyball
right inside the hostel!
When you move in, your room will come
equipped with all the basics like a chair,
table, bed, whiteboard, and a cupboard to
keep your stuff organized. Oh, and don't
worry about staying connected – there's a
LAN port in each room for lightning-fast
internet!
Now, here's the scoop on a few of these
awesome Bhawans which your gonna live in :
1.Gautam Bhawan: It's the smallest boys' hostel with around 200 folks. No QT here,
but who needs it when you're close to CP and SAC?. The people living in this hostel
have no relation to acad block so it doesn't matter how far it is.
2.Valmiki Bhawan: This is the new kid in the block! with Great infrastructure and an
amazing QT where almost 700 boys are gonna chill. The only downside is, it's a bit far
from everything else, but hey, it's worth it!
3.Malviya Bhawan: This is where all the first-year girls are gonna hang out but with
Second years. Brace yourself, because they say the drama here is legendary, even
more than all the other hostels combined!
Now, here's a little tip: All the other Bhawans are where the seniors hang out, so it
might be a good idea to stay away from them (at least for now!).
Get ready for an awesome time in these Bhawans – it's gonna be a blast! 
Pro tip: Check out our campus map and spot these locations on it!
Several arguments erupt as to why one mess is
better than the other, yet this place is often a
sight where large gangs cuddle up together
doubling the capacity of one table becoming
one of the best places to bond with your
friends
MESS
Our campus has two dining halls, namely Mess
1 and Mess 2. One of them is massively sought
after, reservations for which close within
seconds of popping on the SWD portal.
Things may not be sweet all the time, you
may be stuck- when all your friends somehow
manage to get allotted to a different dining
hall. The hawk eye of the mess manager
always somehow manages to catch the
stealth mode operator who sneaks into a
mess he is not registered in.  
Every once in a while, the mess prepares a
special menu catering to the respective
occasion. This, however, comes at an
additional charge.
Mess 1 is catered by Aditya Caterers while
Mess 2 is taken care of by Shakthi Caterers,
both dining halls facing each other,
separated by the old hockey ground.
If you ever feel sick of having, say, Saturday
night dinner, Yummpy’s and the other stalls
right outside the halls swoop in to the rescue.
During the night the dining halls would turn
into the All Night Canteen aka ANC, the
‘mess-iah’ during the exam season. With ANC,
the very same option of food now tasting
magically better
Just ahead of CP, you will find yourself stumbling into
what will become a very busy place come evening.
Congrats mate, you have made it to the sports grounds!
There are multiple sports facilities offered by BITS.
These include-
Tennis: Two tennis courts where team players and
casuals can practice their game.
 
Basketball: Two courts with a marked three point
line, equipped with floodlights and a seating area
commonly known as the ‘bleachers.’ Know this place
like the back of your hand as this is where most
first time interactions occur. Watch out for the
inductions!
Football and athletics: Right past the basketball
court, there is a large football field that is circled by
a 400m track. Both athletics and football events
occur here. 
Swimming: A recently opened facility, the swimming
pool is a recreational area with a pool that is 25m
long and 1.5m deep. Timings are strict and so is the
swimwear allowed. Not recommended for those with
seasonal allergies or Cherophobia.
Sports and SAC
A little further out, lies the Student Activities Centre(SAC). This building,
as the name suggests, is the hub of all student activities. It consists of
two floors, with the following layout.(refer map)
3 pool tables and one billiard table along with the necessary equipment. 
A punching bag where you could catch your peers venting out for all the
misfortunes they face.
A dance room where you might catch a few dancers from Swaranjali preparing
for the next fest.
Further in, a squash room. Bring your own equipment.
Two badminton courts along with plenty of walking room along the sides.
Usually the most in demand sport on campus as it is rarely empty. Bring your
own equipment. 
The gym has two floors. Weights (lower floor)and cardio/plyometrics(upper
floor) for extremely self conscious people. Both sections of the gym are well
equipped with machines and weights and the only requirement is to wear proper
gear and maintain hygiene.
 
Sac (lower Floor)
The upper floor of this building is where most clubs and departments hold
their meetings, rehearsals and game nights. Notable places include:
Sac (Upper Floor)
Elas room, Vfx room, music room, chess, carrom, dramatics and arts and deco
rooms.
Honourable mention: first floor balcony- a place where you may find the
occasional musician, or people from ELAS or Arts and Deco. Overlooks RNT
with a nice view of nature below. Be careful while walking on the upper floors,
though. Nobody wants to tip over that random can of paint!
Tinkerer’s Lab: A place of work, one can find this student bunker under a
staircase between the football grounds and the basketball courts. It’s a place
usually occupied by members of ARC/Aeolus and is home to some of the
brightest minds on campus. 
SAC Basement: We'll leave this one to you guys to figure out :)
Connaught Place
If we had to take a wild guess, the title of this page would bring
the iconic Gregorian-style buildings of Delhi to mind. A tradition
inculcated from the main campus at Pilani; we decided to have
our own spin-off, albeit not-so-grand in architecture. It serves
as a hub for most of our daily essentials. Let's have a look at
what CP has to offer-
1.FRUITFUL: As the name suggests, this spot offers fresh
juices but also delicious brownies, boiled eggs, french fries
and more.
2.BOOK SYNDICATE: The only bookstore on campus. While
buying books from seniors is often wiser, you can always
find new books here at some discount.
3.KARUTURI: A stationery shop that caters to everything
academics and beyond. It is a popular go-to, especially
during exams and fests.
4.HAIR SALON: A decent salon offering all basic facilities
for grooming.
5.GIFT SHOP: Despite its small size, this shop offers a wide
variety of items, including sports equipment, mugs, gift
wraps and more.
6.FRUITS AND VEGETABLE SHOP: A reliable spot for fresh
fruits and vegetables at reasonable rates, comparable to
E-commerce platforms.
7.SBI BANK: The bank branch on our campus offers a range
of services, including account creation and study loans.
With an SBI ATM on site, cash withdrawals are convenient
6.MEDICAL SHOP: The place you're supposed to visit for
any medical assistance and yes, sometimes dealing with
academic stress might require some paracetamol.
7.LAUNDRY SHOP: For those who are too lazy to do their
own laundry, this one's a popular favourite. Though the
rates are decent, be cautious about the misplacement of
your clothes.
8.AGARWAL'S: A general store for all your grocery needs,
from buckets and mugs to instant noodles and chips.
9.HERITAGE: Similar to Karuturi, you can get printouts and
all kinds of stationery from here. Additionally, they also
offer a DTDC courier service here. 
10.GIFT SHOP (2?): If one wasn't enough, we have another.
This shop also sells LAN cables, buckets and more. They
also house a ladies' parlour offering services like
threading and haircuts. 
We'd like to add that most of our couriers from Amazon,
Myntra, Flipkart etc are delivered at CP itself. If not here,
do communicate with your delivery man, he will surely be
stationed at Mess-1 instead. 
Our CP might not share the grandeur of its namesake, but
it is a convenient and essential part of college life,
catering to the diverse needs of us BITSians and making
our daily routines a little easier.
Most of your lectures will be in the F block, mainly F102,F103 (on the right
side of the amphitheater) or F104,F105(on the left side). You will encounter
F106 on the left before you reach the amphitheater. You may also have a
few lectures in F108 or F107 which you walk past when you enter through
the D block entrance and go straight ahead to the F block. 
Your labs for engineering graphics and computer programming are also
easily accessed through the D block entrance. 
The library lawns have the lecture halls on one side, opposite to the library.
The other two sides being the auditorium and the stage. 
Many tutorial classes will be held in the G block, which can be found near the
library. 
Biology, Chemistry and Physics labs are to the right of the B block entrance
on different floors depending on the particular labs. 
Some courses will also have tutorial classes in the new academic block,
which is located behind the auditorium. The iconic large chessboard is in the
middle of the H,I,J and K blocks (in an anticlockwise order from the H block). 
Use your few days before classes to find out where all your classes are
beforehand.
As a fun way to keep track of where everything is, explore around the
academic block and find the boards of all departments which showcase
their statistics and other details.
LibGhos
Academic Block
Locations
MEDICAL
CENTRE
MEDICAL
CENTRE
In the realm of exams, the medical centre becomes our
ultimate rescue center! Whenever you find yourself
unable to take an exam to claim this makeup chance,
simply show your medical centre receipt as proof of your
need for a rescheduled exam.
But more than that this place offers a wide range of
medical facilities. 
It is located just outside CP towards the faculty quarters.
(Find it in the Map!)
The Medical Centre provides primary medical care to the
students, 
employees, 
dependents, 
non-dependent
members of the institute, workers, etc. The medical
services that they provided include – Outpatient care, In-
patient care, Emergency care services (ER), Laboratory
services. MedC has visiting consultants for Gynaecology,
Psychiatrist, Paediatrics, Dentistry and Physiotherapy
departments who come on a weekly basis.
With ambulance care, wheelchairs and 24×7 availability it
is always accessible. There will always be one doctor
available in the MedC. 
You can always consult with them and get an
appointment by contacting them with the number
provided here.
In case of emergency, they have tie-ups with some city
hospitals to take care of the patients too.
MedC Emergency Contact- 9010202850
YOUR NAME
ID- 2023CCPSXXXXH
[CC- BRANCH CODE and
XXXX-YOUR UNIQUE 4 DIGIT NUMBER]
WHERE ARE YOU FROM?
WHAT ARE YOUR HOBBIES  AND INTERESTS?
Giving Your Intro
Giving Your Intro
 While you will be making friends on campus, meeting
new people you will also come across the seniors of BITS.
This is how you will have to introduce yourself. This is
just formality and here is its format.
You are going with your friends exploring the campus
and a group of seniors stop you and now you have to
introduce yourself. You are standing in line with the
newly met people nervously waiting for your turn.
Interactions can happen in many different situations be it
club introductory meets, while buying books from seniors
or randomly being stopped by them. Be ready to take part
in many situational tasks and activities (BITSIAN salute
hii!). It is highly recommended to take part in these tasks
with a positive attitude.
Feel free to share your hobbies and interests. This
is a major conversation starter!
After the first few interactions, you will have
both positive and negative emotions depending on
the type of seniors you have met. It is ok if you
feel angry especially if you crossed path with the
bad bunch of seniors. But don’t hesitate to
participate in these interactions. You might think
all this is unnecessary but you need to understand
the underlying purpose of these interactions. The
primary goal is to establish a meaningful dialogue
and connection between you and your seniors.
These seniors will be your guiding support
throughout your college journey, offering insights
into academics, clubs, internships, and advice on
any issues you may face. And not to forget the
occasional treats you will get from them. Who
knows you might find a good friend in them.
If you ever find yourself in a situation of
discomfort during interactions, always feel free to
say no. If any senior overlooks your objections to
a severe extent, make sure you approach the Anti-
Ragging 
Committee 
(Check 
the 
'Important
Contacts' Section).
All this said, don’t shut yourself in your room, go
outside and happy interacting!!
Types of People you will Meet on
Campus
When you come to college, you will probably meet a hell lot of
people but these are the type of people you will surely come across
in the campus.
Gym Rat
If you ever get to know he is lost, look for him in the
gym. He’ll get boiled chicken from ANC, eat 5-6 egg
whites daily, always order protein shakes from
online. Gotta feel sad for his roommate for the
amount of protein he consumes. But he will be your
brother if you ever hit the gym <3.
The Snek
“Bro, I haven’t studied anything! I just hope not to get an NC
now”. DO NOT TRUST THESE GUYS. Often, they’ll end up scoring
more than you and hide from all the limelight then. Snek can
either be your wingie or your roommate himself/herself.
Ghots are quite often mistaken as snek, but it is necessary
to say that ghots always study in their room but we never
find sneks studying and they still score well.
The Bangalorean
What macha chumma don’t say anything about Blr okay!!
Dudee, listen up Blore weather is sooo good, I mean it
seriously. We have so aesthetic streets and damn Phoenix
mall!! And they would mouth off about comparing Bangalore
with other cities. Bangaloreans make up most of the campus
population after Hyderabadis, so spare with them during
your stay in the campus.
Mr./Ms. Omnipresent 
Spamming stickers in whatsapp groups and staying active in
all of the help groups is a common habit for these people.
May it be during the sem break or even at the middle of the
night, you won’t be surprised if their message pops up. These
generally turn out to be the chad in the group, sad in the
sheet guys, so beware of them.  
The Overachiever 
These people have learned C++, Java, Python, HTML and
already would’ve gotten amazon placement offer but just
are waiting for their graduation. Ordinary conversations
won’t work with them, talk to them about something they
like and they would keep on going for hours.
The Makeup guy
These types of people will find the lamest of all excuses to apply for
makeups. Getting a fake prescription is hobby for them and believe me,
you won’t know they are so good at acting until they talk with the
doctor in MedC. They can afford a makeup but not study properly by
putting bare minimum efforts the night before exam. Ask them to think
of reasons to avoid exam, they’ll start telling an endless list.
The library camper
Wake them up at the middle of the night and they can
sleepwalk to the library without stuttering. They would sit
in the library and go on sitting there for hours (we don’t
know if they’re actually studying though). You can always
ask him to save a seat in the library as he is always there in
the library.
The ANC camper
The ANC camper are the people who literally hate (not even
dislike) the mess. You can always find them in mess after
10PM in either of the ANC. But somehow love the food when
the same person cooks it after 10PM in the All Night Canteen.
These people generally are the ones who land up with
negative 10k or negative 15k after the semester deductions
come out
The RNT resident
Bro, do you have a girlfriend? Him: No. Then why do you even
go to RNT for no reason? Well, it is beyond your
understanding capabilities. These people in campus who go
RNT just to scare couples are absolute jerks though it is
fun to hangout with your friends in the RNT. Oops, did I
mention RNT? 
THE INT KIDS
Ever had that feeling where you can hear
someone's voice in your head just by looking at
them? Ever hear that annoying accent you never
thought you'd hear outside the first class of
titanic? These stereotypes are embodied in BPHC's
int kids(NRI's), who like to casually flaunt their
international travels. Never ask these people
how much they scored in bitsat.
It’s a way of life here at Bits, a
façade to hide away all your
inner pain. It means that the issue
is “light” or doesn’t matter which
isn’t always the case. How did
that evaluative go? Lite, bro.
How’s your sem cg? Lite,bro. Hey
did you get placed ? lite.
It stands for tutorial classes
where you solve problems. Some
tuts like EG are evaluative, most
aren’t. Most of us find out our
tutorial rooms only at the time of
tests. Mostly attended by ghots.
Someone still stuck in their Jee
phase who spends all their time
studying. It becomes impossible to
have a normal conversation with
them without talking about
academics. But it’s more of a praise
than an insult.
A term used to collectively
refer to all EEE, ECE and ENI
students. A dualite is fuelled by
the fear of ending up in the
highly dreaded phoenix. The
stressful evals, the heavy
workload and the pressure
among students will ensure you
come out of BITS electrocuted.
It stands for Bitsian standard
time. It varies from IST by
minimum 30 minutes. So every
event you attend- inauguration,
artist’s pro shows, comedy
nights and cultural nights,
expect it to be delayed by 30
minutes at least.
The site that handles registration
for courses, fee payment and
displays your grades (if it loads up
that is). Be very careful to not
click on my academic requirements
in front of your parents at the time
of fee payment.
"lite"
"verti"
"erp"
"tuts"
The dream that remains a dream for
most freshers. It is the chance to get
upgraded to a better branch awarded to
the highly meritorious.
"phoenix"
"ghot"
"BST"
It stands for all night canteen. You
make orders on smart campus and it is
the place to satisfy  your midnight
cravings. Money is spent like monopoly
money here. It is one of the best things
that our campus has to offer, make the
most of it.
"ANC"
BITS
BITS JARGON
JARGON
It refers to all the souls that
like to torment themselves by
pursuing a dual degree. They are
constantly lamenting about
their falling cg, workload and
regrets of not choosing a single
degree.
It means annoying bickering.
Can be about anything –
singleness, Cg or anything
that life throws at you.
Get the full form from your Hindi
friends. It’s a particular way of
celebrating-involving a group of
people lifting you and making
targeted aims at your behind. Every
time you do well in an eval, or a
birthday expect a GPL.
You wouldn’t want to be
anywhere associated with
this. It stands for
disciplinary committee.
You must have seen this by
now. The only piece of
architecture that stands out
in our campus. Climbing the
rocks is a fun activity for
friends and couples alike.
LL stands for lovers lane but
contradictory to its name it’s
isolated. RNT refers to road
not taken but you’d not want to
take this road only if you are
single and don’t want to be
reminded of your singleness.
If you miss an evaluative you can
redeem yourself with a makeup.
General advice- take it only for
labs and don’t miss any exams. The
makeup papers are way harder
than the regular ones and you
don’t know if you’d even be
granted one.
When a senior asks you for
one, you follow the format- id
no, name where you are from
and your hobbies. It is always
fun and opens you up.
"DISCO"
"interaction"
"makeup"
"GPL"
"rr"
"ll and rnt"
"dulla"
"rocks"
As the name suggests, the Anti-Ragging Committee deals with
any issues related to ragging on campus. If at any point
throughout your college life- you are made to feel unsafe,
uncomfortable or otherwise disturbed by the action of your
seniors/ juniors/ batchmates, contact any member of the Anti-
Ragging Committee. Feel free to approach a senior or professor
you trust, if you feel intimidated at the thought of approaching a
formal body.
IMPORTANT 
 It represents the Student's General Body(that's you) and
represents the grievances to the administration. It acts as a
bridge between the student body and the administration.
The Internal Complaints Committee deals with any problems.
rested to harassment, assault or abuse- physical, sexual, or
otherwise on campus – by providing complaint redressal
mechanisms
CONTACTS
 student union-
 Anti-ragging Committee-
Internal Complaints Committee-
President
 Ritesh Bandaru 
(+91 84988 88144)
Gen. Secretary
 Sai Sumanth 
(+91 70327 00222)
The Academic Counselling Cell (or ACC for short) aims at
providing academic counselling to any student in need of it.
While the ACC was established to deal with student
problems related to academics, they do not restrict
themselves to only academic issues. If you're in requirement
of any assistance, simply pop at their doorstep and they shall
assist away
The Disciplinary Committee deals with alleged breaches of
college rules. This includes the standard drinking/smoking
and extends to vandalism of institute’s or peer’s property and
hostel violations as well.
A campus-wide support network for allies GSRM's Sexual
Romantic Minorities) further the larger discussion around
inclusion and acceptance of the community.
Academic Counselling Cell-
Disciplinary Committee-
Queer Consortium-
anchor and mpower-
Anchor is the pan-campus Gender and
Sexuality Cell and an LGBTQ+
community organization by and for
the students of BITS Pilani. They work
towards fostering inclusivity for queer
students and educating the student
body on a spectrum of LGBTQ+ topics.
MPower is the chamber for consulting
the therapist/psychologist/psychiatrist.  
To avail their services, reach out to the
mentioned email ID. 
mpower.info-hyderabad.cell@abet.co.in
Coordinator- Mr Likith (+91 70757 74107)
Anchoratbits@gmail.com
To learn more about Anchor, the queer
community, or ways to support, visit:
Anchorbitspilani.Contactin.bio/
We take pride in our immense social media engagement at the BITS
Pilani University and Hyderabad campus. There is good participation by
all kinds of groups of people on campus, including administration,
professors, undergrad and PhD students. Taking advantage of the lack
of a ceiling on the number of members on a Facebook group, we have
groups specialized for all kinds of activities. All sorts of announcements
and agreements are made by using these Facebook groups.
You might take some time to get used to this since many of you are
probably more well-versed with other social media platforms, but
Facebook provides the most convenient interface for all sorts of people
to interact. 
Keep in mind you will probably need your student ID to enter a lot of
these groups:
FACEBOOK GROUPS
1a)BPHC shoutbox:
Your one stop shop for all induction notices, sports results and any
other campus news you might need. A must have for any student
on campus.
1b) BPHC Free Expression Group (FEG)
This is another destination for every BPHC student and is the
largest social media platform where all kinds of people on campus
can connect. This is the first place you should reach if you need to
launch communication with the masses, be it asking for favors,
support, connection requests, complaints, mobilization, or just
asking queries that can benefit the larger audience. The FEG can
also play a role in influencing decision-making and sending
messages to the administration; it is virtually the only way the
campus residents can collect support and present a united front.
3) SMC
Mess 1 >>> Mess 2?
Any special menu? Any complaints? Any
inquiries?
The SMC Facebook group is the correct
place to find all the answers to these tough
questions.
2) LOST AND FOUND BPHC
  Do you need help finding a needle in a haystack?
  Why not recruit the help of our entire BPHC family?
  Making a post on the Facebook group can help you reach
a larger audience and increase your chances of being
reunited with lost articles.
  PSA: If you find something belonging to someone else,
you can also post it on the group and demand a rightfully
deserved treat ;)
4) Out Of Context BPHC
   The group where people post hilarious
jokes, memes, and conversations without
giving any context.
6) Travel BPHC
  When you have to spend 4-5 years in
the middle of nowhere, traveling tends to
be a tedious affair; the travel BPHC
Facebook group helps you connect and
accordingly plan your travel with other
people, which helps in splitting fares,
finding company, and coordinating
travel.
5) Humans Of BPHC (HoBPHC)
Managed by the Journal Club, HoBPHC
allows the campus residents a platform to
share inspiring stories and experiences.
Residents of all backgrounds, whether
student, faculty, or vendor empower the
general body from this dias. 
7) BUY & SELL BPHC 
   Are you ever looking to grab a steal or
strike a deal? The Buy and Sell BPHC is
your one-stop destination. You can find
a lot of helpful stuff that you can inherit
from your seniors, hence continuing the
legacy of the campus.
8)FREE SHITPOSTING BPHC
  Being a true BITSIAN means being part
of the vibrant meme culture here on
campus. BPHC shitposting is crucial to
the environment on campus, and
remember; every post is #notashitpost.
BASICS OF BPHC ACADEMICS 
·Lectures: Here, you will learn the fundamental theory and concepts of
the course. Usually, there are three lectures per week for 3-credit and 4-
credit courses. 2-credit courses generally have 1 (or rarely 2) lectures per
week.
·Tutorials: In tutorial classes, you solve problems related to the topics
covered in lectures. These sessions have a smaller number of students per
section but a larger number of sections scattered across several days of
the week, allowing a convenient choice of slot and easy clarification of
doubts. Typically, tutorials occur once a week.
·Practical: Some courses (typically 4-credit courses) include a Practical
component. During practical sessions, you perform experiments relevant
to the theory studied in lectures. These sessions can be enjoyable but are
often evaluated.
Let's delve into the organizational structure and functioning of the academic
system at BPHC.
COURSES: At BPHC, courses replace subjects as primary educational units.
These well-designed curriculums cover various topics and comprise
different evaluative components. The scope and intervals for topics and
exams are largely left to the discretion of the I/C (Instructor in Charge) but
the syllabus rarely sees a large shift from previous batches.
CREDITS: Each course is assigned a certain number of credits, indicating the
effort required and its impact on your CGPA. In a semester, you must enroll
in a minimum of 9 and a maximum of 25 credits. The total credits of all
courses for a semester should fall within this range, and no exceptions are
made in this regard.
VARIETIES OF COURSES: BITS offers three main types of courses:
1.Standard Courses: These are the most common and make up the majority of
your coursework. They consist of three components:
To design your own timetable, check out ChronoFactorem by CruX!
Disciplinary Electives (del): These courses align with your branch and
CDCs. It is recommended to take them from the 2-2 semester, although
some ambitious students opt for them in their 2-1, meaning they'll study
alongside third and fourth-year students (a challenging prospect). To
graduate, you must complete a minimum of 4 dels or 12 credits. This
allows you to explore your branch of study in domains of your
preference instead of having to finish more CDCs.
Humanities Electives (huel): These courses are more diverse and
enjoyable, attracting many students who are eager to pursue their
passions. During the swap period, you observe a rush as students try to
secure these courses (and dropping them just as fast during the drop
period). To graduate, you need to finish a minimum of 3 huels or 8
credits. These courses often relate to social studies, literature,
philosophies, cinematic arts, and social theory.
2. Labs: Labs are typically 1-unit (sometimes 2 units) courses solely focused
on conducting weekly experiments. There is no theoretical aspect to these
courses, but they provide hands-on technical experience and complement
the standard courses.
3. Formal projects: These courses have a standard weightage of 3 credits,
and are evaluated on the basis of a semester-long project undertaken with a
professor. You need not worry about these until the end of 2nd year usually,
but some people do apply for projects earlier. Informal projects do not
contribute to your CGPA in any form.
To get a better understanding of how to prepare for individual first-year
courses, the SWD portal has suggestions and advice.
ELECTIVES AND MINORS:
Now let's discuss some important aspects that may not be immediately
relevant in your first year (as course selection is limited), but they hold
great significance.
CDCS: Core Disciplinary Courses are mandatory courses directly related to
your chosen branch of study. Unlike other courses (electives), you cannot
drop these from your semester schedule. Graduation will not be possible
without obtaining a valid grade in these courses.
ELECTIVES: In addition to your CDCs, you have the option to take up courses
falling under three categories:
Open Electives (opel): These courses are open to anyone who meets the
prerequisites. They provide an opportunity to explore subjects
outside your core curriculum, potentially enabling you to pursue a
minor or fulfill any unfulfilled huel interests. You must complete a
minimum of 5 opels or 15 credits to graduate.
PREREQUISITES: For certain courses, you must have already completed
specific prerequisites to be eligible for enrollment. Planning in advance
is crucial, so consult the bulletin or seek advice from seniors to ensure
you meet the necessary requirements.
MINOR: By paying a nominal fee (though not insignificant by BITS
standards), achieving the CGPA cutoff, and fulfilling the course
requirements for the chosen minor, you can earn an additional degree.
Planning your minor courses starting from your second year is
recommended depending on your minor.
How do CGPA and grading work?
It’s pretty simple really. The grading system works as follows: A=10
points, A-=9, B=8, ..., D=4, and E=2. You multiply the number of credits/units
of a course with the points corresponding to the grade obtained; this
resultant number makes up the grade points for that particular course.
Take a summation of grade points across all courses in a semester and
divide it by the total number of credits undertaken that semester; this
gives your SGPA (Semester Grade Point Average). Do the same for all
courses across all semesters and this results in your CGPA (Cumulative
Grade Point Average).
Most courses usually give a B- or 7 at the average mark. Any grade other
than the 8 valid grades mentioned above (such as an NC or RC) will
require you to either repeat a course (in case of a CDC) or supplement
those missed credits (in case of dels, huels, opels). You are allowed to
have, at most, one E per semester, flouting which will usually result in an
ACC (Academic Counselling Cell) meeting.
THE ACADEMIC TIMELINE
You may have heard about the fabled DEls and OpEls, and the valorant
stories of PSs and SIs. The Academic Timeline shall guide you through
this mythical land, so walk along, for the years that lie ahead are
brimmed with paramount choices. The first year is leashed JUST with
CDCs, those introductory courses to the various aspects of engineering
and sciences with not much to choose. But it gets interesting after that.
You will be getting an influx of seemingly endless set of choices (not
quite), without any idea of what and when to choose. While the "What"
part of it will be answered by your branch-specific seniors, here's an
answer to the "When" part of it.
FIRST YEAR (1-1 AND 1-2 - COMMON FOR EVERYONE)
2-1 - Take 1 HuEl. No free credits to take
DEI(s) or OpEl(s); work to improve your
CG if needed.
• 2-2 - Take the remaining 2 Huel(s);
You will have free credits remaining
for 1 more elective. Use it to take a DEI
or OpEl. This OpEl can be a minor
degree course (yes, you can take start
taking even before you're allocated
one). 2-2 is when you apply for PS-1,
and a minor degree, if interested. 2-2
is when you pick research projects
from a given list to do a formal project
under a prof.
PS - 1
3-1 - Sit for SIs. Both 3-1 and 3-2 have have
more than 50% credits free. Take up as
many Dels, and OpEls or formal projects
if interested.
Between 3-2 and 4-1 - SI or RI, if eligible •
4-1 - Get done with any courses/electives
remaining; Placements time.
• 4-2-PS-2 (the order of 4-1 and 4-2 can be
reversed; the CGPA till 2 sems before PS-
2 is considered for allocation.)
                             SINGLE DEGREE:
2-1- Take 1 HuEl+1DEI or 2 HuEls; Develope
skills, improve CGPA.
2-2 - Take 2 HuEls+1 DEls or 1 HuEl+1 DEI;
apply for PS-1 and minor, if interested. The
free credits in 2-1 and 2-2 can also be
utilised to do minor courses (a dualite HAS
to do a summer term to complete a minor
degree). CGPA requirements for PS-1 and
minors are similar to single degree.
PS - 1
3-1 - BE courses begin; hectic times - can't
take any electives.
3-2 - Can take upto 1 elective (commonly
used to take 1 MSc. DEI).
Between 3-2 and 4-1 - can do summer term
to progress in minor degree courses.
Choose and apply for formal projects
under profs if interested.
4-1- Sit for SIs. Both 4-1 and 4-2 have lots of
free credits for MSc. and BE DEIS (Try to
get done with all of them; can't take OpEls),
or formal project courses.
Between 4-2 and 5-1 - SI or RI, if eligible. 
5-1 and 5-2 - Double PS-2 if done with all 21
courses; or 1 PS-2 + thesis.
                              DUAL DEGREE:
 Department of Photography
(DoPY) 
In Dopy, we believe in the power
of pictures over words. Committed
to our philosophy, our primary
responsibility is to capture and
document all three fests through
captivating photographs. If you are
a photography enthusiast seeking
the perfect platform to showcase
your talent, Dopy is the ideal
department for you.
Department of Visual Effects
(DoVE)
 Dove specializes in videography,
video editing, and visual effects.
Leading up to the fest, they
create captivating fest trailers
and logo reveals. During the
fest, they diligently capture all
the festivities. After the fest,
they skillfully edit the recorded
clips to craft an impressive
aftermovie. If you have a passion
for creating stunning visual
content and capturing
memorable moments, Dove
offers an exciting role for you.
Department Of Recreational
Activities
(DoRA) 
DORA is the powerhouse behind all
the fun-filled events at BPHC. From
Know Your Homies to Virtual
Escape Rooms, and from Blind
Dating to offline Treasure Hunts,
DORA organizes a diverse range of
enjoyable activities for everyone to
participate in and make lasting
memories.
Controlz
The line between order and disorder
lies in logistics. One of the most
efficient departments on campus,
they oversee the logistics of Atmos
and Pearl. From arranging transport
and accommodation for guests to
event scheduling and management,
they ensure the smooth running of
all operations. If you wish to
develop your organizational and
leadership skills and are keen to
know how things work behind the
scenes during the fest, this
department is for you.
DEPARTMENTS
DEPARTMENTS
Firewallz
 The backbone of Arena, the sports fest
of BPHC, Firewallz looks after the
logistics of Arena from the inauguration
ceremony to the prize distribution. If you
wish to be a part of the biggest
department on campus and acquire
management skills, Firewallz is for you.
 Department of Professional
Events (DoPE) 
DoPE is responsible for securing artists
for pro shows, handling their
accommodations, and working closely
with them during the fest. Gain
valuable experience in event
management and artist coordination.
Lights and Sound Department
(LSD)
 The LSD takes charge of organizing
and overseeing all sound and lighting
aspects for various student-run
events on campus, including the
fests. With a year-round
commitment, they ensure the
seamless execution of events by
providing the necessary technical
support and expertise in sound and
lighting management. If you have a
passion for creating captivating
atmospheres and ensuring top-notch
audiovisual experiences, LSD is the
department where you can make a
significant impact.
 Department of Sponsorship
and Marketing (DoSM)
 DoSM comprises a dedicated
group of individuals who work
tirelessly to uphold the
reputation of BPHC fests as
some of the best in India. Their
primary focus lies in securing
new sponsors, maintaining
existing and past sponsorships,
and raising funds for all three
fests. If you consider yourself
witty, innovative, and possess
excellent negotiating skills, this
department offers the perfect
opportunity for you to
contribute your talents and
make a significant impact.
Department of Public and
Public Relations (DePP)
DePP is responsible for promoting
all three campus fests through
various means, including cold calls,
organizing offline trips, and
workshops. As a member of DePP,
you have the opportunity to
enhance your skills in Digital
Marketing, Search Engine
Optimization, and more.
 Department of Security and
Hospitality (DOSH)
 DOSH takes charge of ensuring
the safety and security of Atmos
and Pearl. They handle event
registrations, and guest
accommodations, and collaborate
with security consultants to
provide security during the pro
shows. Joining DOSH grants you
access to the green room, the
opportunity to meet artists, and
allows you to interact with
numerous individuals, making it a
rewarding experience.
Department of Technical Arts
(DOTA)
 As the backbone of technical
support for our fests, DOTA is a
team of skilled graphic designers
and app/web developers. Their
primary responsibility includes
creating eye-catching posters,
logos, and other visual assets for
various events during the fest.
Additionally, they play a crucial
role in building engaging fest
websites that enhance the overall
fest experience.
Department of Arts and
Decorations 
This creative team is dedicated to
beautifying our campus and
creating a fantastic aesthetic
ambience during the fest. They
specialize in crafting life-size
models using innovative and
unconventional methods. Joining
this department only requires your
enthusiastic spirit and a knack for
innovative thinking.
TECH-CLUBS
180 DEGREES CONSULTING (180DC)
TRADERS@BPHC
BITS HYDERABAD CONSULTING GROUP
(BHCG)
WALL STREET CLUB
CRUX (THE PROGRAMMING AND
COMPUTING CLUB)
STUDENTS FOR THE EXPLORATION AND
DEVELOPMENT OF SPACE (SEDS)
A social consulting group which aims to
help clients from various fields tackle the
challenges they face. Unlike other
consulting groups, 180DC is a global
organization which operates through
branches in colleges.
A group of highly motivated people who
are not afraid to take risks,
Traders@BPHC aims to make trading
accessible to every BITSian. They actively
chat and discuss ideas throughout the
trading hours and have special meets to
discuss advanced ideas and concepts.
Aspiring management consultants and
product managers will find this club to be
the perfect place to build their skills and
enhance their business acumen. The club
holds workshops, case studies etc. and
also participates in national competitions
to help the members build their skills.
The one for finance enthusiasts. Do you
closely follow financial markets and are
interested in the intricacies of Stock
Market and Stock Trading? WSC is the
perfect club for you to meet like-minded
people and expand your knowledge.
The clan of geeks of BPHC who work on all
things computing and programming. From
competitive coding to machine learning,
the club has members with expertise in all
areas of computing and they strive to
improve the programming culture on
campus.
From building their own satellites to
launching rockets up to10,000 feet, SEDS
reach new heights with every new
achievement. If you are interested in
Space exploration and rocket propulsion,
this club is perfect for you.
SOS
HYPERLOOP
AD ASTRA
AUTOMATION AND ROBOTICS CLUB
(ARC)
INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS (IEEE)
SOCIETY OF AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERS
(SAE)
The Society for Open Software is a group
of Open-Source software enthusiasts
whose mission is to acquaint BPHC with
Open-Source software and to increase
the adoption of GNU + Linux among
students and faculty alike.
Have you always been fascinated with the
night sky and the mysteries behind those
twinkling stars? Then Ad Astra is perfect
for you. The club holds various events
and stargazing sessions and also
undertakes projects in the domain of
Astronomy and Astrophysics with the
motto uppar dekhte raho.
A student team dedicated to advancing
the Hyperloop project, one of the most
ambitious transportation projects, in
India. They also take part in various
Hyperloop competitions across the
world and welcome students from
varying degrees.
The BPHC chapter of one of the largest
and one of the oldest technical and
professional organizations in the world,
they work to boost the research culture
of EEE and CS domains on campus. The
members of IEEE are involved in hosting
many talks and conferences and they
also work on exciting projects in their
domains.
If inquisitiveness and innovation are
your assets, then ARC is the right place
for you. ARC is all about robotics and
tinkering. They design and program
robots and also take part in global
competitions.
Are you a Formula 1 fan and get a thrill
hearing the engines roar on the track? If
your answer is yes then SAE BPHC is the
club to be in. SAE conducts various
competitions, guest lectures etc. and
being a member will give you access to
all of them. In addition to that, the
members also participate in global
competitions like BAJA, FORMULA-
SUPRA to name a few.
AEOLUS
E-SPORTS CLUB
BLOCKSOC
ASSOCIATION OF COMPUTING
MACHINERY (ACM)
The Blockchain Society. They love all
things blockchain, and try to explain
the elusive world of cryptocurrencies
and smart contracts to the general
public through articles and workshops.
The Aerial Robotics Club of BPHC, they
take up projects in the domain of Drones
and attempt to solve real world problems
with drones. Oh, and did we mention that
they race their drones?
The E-Sports club is one to lookout for
those of you who love the adrenaline rush
that comes from intense and competitive
gaming! They are responsible for all
esports related events on campus from
FPS games to FIFA. The E-Sports club
organizes events including LAN (intra and
inter college) events and other workshops.
They are also known for their gaming pop-
ups and tournaments during the fest.
The BPHC chapter of ACM, the world's
largest educational and scientific and
computing society, works on numerous
projects in the field of computing and
trains and nurtures the budding computing
enthusiasts of our campus.
COMEDY CLUB
Everyone awaits their show during fests,
they write and perform comedic skits
pertaining to relatable college
situations. It isn't easy to get into this
club. Want to become SU president? Join
this club says the insider talk!
COOKING CLUB
Interested in cooking amazing dishes and
cuisines? Here is an exclusive club for you! Do
grab a bite at their food stalls during fests,
they are pocket-friendly.
CYPHER(Dance club) 
It's a close-knit club for all the
dancers(all forms except classical).
Super hard to get in but if you think you
got the moves, make sure to give it a try.
 DESIGNERS ANONYMOUS
(Design Club) 
Interested in graphic designing? This club
is for you. They primarily work on creating
digital art using software like Adobe
Photoshop, Clip Studio Paint, Procreate
etc.
CRIMSON CURTAIN (Dramatics Club)
Theatre and Drama enthusiasts and got the skill
for it? This club is your playground. You can
literally steal the spotlight here! It could be in the
form of acting, scriptwriting, video
editing/graphic designing.
 MOVIE CLUB
The movie club takes charge of presenting
an array of fantastic films. However, their
involvement in the world of cinema
doesn’t end there. Members also
contribute to the club by writing movie
reviews, engaging in editing tasks, and
even exploring the art of filmmaking. It’s a
versatile and dynamic space for movie
enthusiasts to celebrate and appreciate
the magic of the silver screen.
 ELAS (English Language
Activities Society)
Whether you like to express your thoughts by
penning them down on paper or through
public speaking and debating, this is the
club for you. They also host their very own
fest, Verba Maximus which boasts of a wide
range of literary and oratory events.
 JOURNAL CLUB
Journal Club is the primary writing and reporting
body on campus. They keep the GB in the loop,
decorate their blog with tasteful articles, and
also manage HoBPHC. Stay tuned for their
writeups and magazines.
SHADES (Arts Club)
The right place to bring out your art skills is
Shades. It deals with all kinds of drawings,
paintings, sketching etc. Its art pieces can be
observed around the library, SWD Office and
many more places.
MUSIC CLUB
Among the most exclusive clubs on campus, the
Music Club stands out as a sought-after group
to join. True to its name, this club showcases an
array of talented vocalists and instrumentalists,
skilled in playing various instruments like violin,
keyboard, guitar, tabla and many more. The
captivating music they produce is undeniably
contagious, leaving a lasting impact on anyone
who listens.
 QUIZ CLUB
Quiz Club is a dynamic quizzing community
that hosts monthly quizzes covering a wide
range of topics. The club aims to rekindle
the joy of quizzing, offering numerous
events throughout the semester. If you’re
fascinated by current affairs, trivia or
intriguing facts, the quiz club provides the
perfect setting to indulge your interests.
PHOTOG CLUB
As one of the most vibrant clubs on campus, the
photography club of BPHC, known as Photog,
remains incredibly active. Throughout the year,
Photog members are constantly engaged in their
passion for photography. It’s quite common to
spot them on a random evening, eagerly
attempting to capture the mesmerizing beauty of
a sunset from the new academic terraces.
SWARANJALI
Swaranjali deals with various forms of classical
dance and music which have originated from
various parts of India. The club with its talented
members represent the diverse and exquisite
culture of our country.
 SANSKRIT AND FOREIGN
LANGUAGES CLUB  
SaFL is the perfect club for multilingual
enthusiasts or linguaphiles who love engaging
in a variety of fascinating events throughout
the day. The club offers various divisions, such
as French, Korean, German, Spanish, and
Japanese, where members can immerse
themselves in different languages and
cultures.
VFx CLUB
 VFx Club deals with video editing, shooting and
animation. They shoot actively and are involved
with most of the clubs/depts of the campus.
Whenever any club/department is in need of a
video, they’re there to save the day.
HINDI TARANG
 Immerse yourself in the enchanting world of
poetry and soul-stirring shayaris! Welcome
to Hindi Tarang, the cherished literary
heaven of BPHC. They also invite poets to
talk, organize fun events like antakshari,
apun ka bollywood and do many more
things.
TECHNICAL ASSOCS
1.CSA
the computer science association.
the ece, eie and eee association.
2.PHoEnix
3.MEA
the mechanical engineering
association.
4.ACE
the association of chemical
engineering.
5.CEA
the civil engineering association.
are student run bodies that represent the core 
                                             branches. students are then 
                                                elected into pors or positions 
                                                of responsibility, where they 
                             govern and ensure the assoc runs 
                              smoothly.
TECHNICAL ASSOCS
8.The Economics  
  Association                           
the mathematics association.
7.AXIOM
9.SPECTRUM
the physics association.
10.ALCHEMY
the association of the chemistry
department.
11.SYNAPSIS
the biological sciences association.
the association for the
students of the pharmacy
department.
6.PANACEA
REGIONAL ASSOCS
1.Baithak
                     Represents Jammu and Kashmir,
Haryana, Punjab, Delhi NCR, Rajasthan,
Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.
Represents Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh,
Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Chattisgarh,
Uttarakhand and the Northeast.
2.Sangam
3.Brindavanam
Represents  the Telugu states of Andhra Pradesh and
Telangana.
4.Kasturi
Represents Kannadigas and the state of
Karnataka.
5.Umang
Represents Gujaratis and the state of Gujarat.
REGIONAL ASSOCS
6.Maithri
                        Represents Malayalis and the state
of Kerala.
7.Mama
Represents Marathis and the state of
Maharashtra.
8.Geetanjali
Represents Bengalis and the state of West Bengal.
9.Tamil Sangam
Represents Tamilians and the state
 of Tamil Nadu.
10.Utkal
Represents the Odia and the state of Odisha.
The C Block
The C Block
The C Block
AUGSD(C315)
The Academic-Undergraduate Studies Division
manages every aspect of your educational journey
– from arranging classes and allotting instructors
to the anxiety-inducing moment of grade releases.
Should you ever seek guidance or need to voice
concerns about your academics, they are just a
hop skip and jump away.
SWD: 
The Student Welfare Division handles the
non-academic part of your stay on campus.
They play a crucial role in processing financial
assistance claims and diligently collect your
fees. Additionally, they are responsible for
managing hostel and mess allotment, ensuring
you have a place to call home during your
time here.
Timetable division:
 As the name suggests, the
Timetable Division takes charge
of your schedule on campus.
They expertly arrange the timing
and locations for lectures,
tutorials, and practicals. When
you need to book a room within
the academic block, they are the
ones to approach. 
Practice School Division
As the name suggests, this
division deals with PS-1 and 2. It
approaches various companies
so that opportunities can be
provided to the students. The
companies are then properly
listed and each student gets to
select one based on their needs
and interests
Placement Division
This division helps bring together
the placement processes of all
three campuses. The branches of
this division on all three
campuses are managed by
student volunteers
AGSRD: 
Academic-Graduate and
Research Division manages
the PHD programs offered by
the campus.
THE CORROBORATION AND REVIEW
COMMITTEE (CRC) IS A NEUTRAL BODY
CONSISTING OF 6 MEMBERS. THE CRC
VERIFIES ALL THE INCOME AND
EXPENSES OF THE STUDENT UNION
COUNCIL (INCLUDING THE FOUR MAJOR
ANNUAL FESTS). THE CRC ALSO TAKES
UP THE RESPONSIBILITY OF REVIEWING
AND APPROVING BUDGETS FOR THE
ABOVE ACTIVITIES AS WELL AS
MAINTAINING AND ENFORCING THE BPHC
PROCEDURES MANUAL.
NOTICED THE PEOPLE WEARING THE
MERCH OF RAF AT YOUR FIRST-YEAR
ORIENTATION? THE RECREATIONAL
ACTIVITIES FORUM(RAF) ORGANIZES
NUMEROUS LEISURE ACTIVITIES FOR
THE MEMBERS OF THE BPHC. FROM THE
FIRST-YEAR ORIENTATION TO THE
BEAUTIFUL BON VOYAGE AT THE TIME
OF YOUR FAREWELL, RAF IS THERE
WITH YOU. IN ADDITION, THE RAF ALSO
ARRANGES VACATIONS, SCREENINGS OF
MOVIES AND SPORTING EVENTS, AND
MANY OTHER ENTERTAINING ACTIVITIES
RAF
EC
THE ELECTION COMMISSION (EC) IS THE
BODY RESPONSIBLE FOR CONDUCTING
TIMELY FREE AND FAIR ELECTIONS FOR
ALL THE ORGANS MAKING UP THE SU. IT
CONSISTS OF SIX MEMBERS WHO
ENSURE THAT THE CONSTITUTION IS
UPHELD BY THE ELECTED POSITION
HOLDERS AND WHO ACT AS
MODERATORS DURING THE GENERAL
BODY MEETS (GBMS). IT IS
INDEPENDENT, AUTONOMOUS AND HELPS
IN CREATING A DEMOCRATIC NOTION ON
CAMPUS.
CRC
THE INTERNAL COMPLAINTS COMMITTEE
(ICC) IS A BODY DEALING WITH CASES
PERTAINING TO SEXUAL HARASSMENT
AND ABUSE. THEY ARE AN EASILY
APPROACHABLE COMMITTEE THAT
HANDLE SUCH CASES WITH MAXIMUM
LEVELS OF SENSITIVITY, ANONYMITY
AND CARE, TAKING THE MOST
APPROPRIATE ACTION FOR EACH AND
EVERY CASE. THE ANONYMITY OF THE
COMPLAINANT IS OF THE UTMOST
IMPORTANCE TO THEM IF THAT'S WHAT
IS DEMANDED FOR, ALONG WITH
PROVIDING COUNSELING TO THE BEST OF
THEIR ABILITIES IF THEY HAVE BEEN
MENTALLY DISTURBED BY THE
INCIDENT, AS THE COMFORT OF THE
COMPLAINANT IS THE TOP PRIORITY OF
THE ICC
ICC
COMMITTEES
THE VENDOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
(VMC) IS AUTHORIZED TO LOOK AFTER
THE CONTRACTS OF THE VENDORS AND
FOOD OUTLETS ON CAMPUS, ALONG
WITH NEGOTIATING PRICES OF THE
ITEMS THEY SERVE AND TO GUARANTEE
A HASSLE-FREE ENVIRONMENT. THEY
TAKE FEEDBACK FROM THE GB ON THE
QUALITY OF THE DISHES SERVED, AND
SERVICES PROVIDED BY THESE VENDORS
AND THEN CONTINUE TO TAKE THE
NECESSARY DECISIONS.
VMC
BITSAA (BITS ALUMNI ASSOCIATION)
INTERNATIONAL INC. IS A NON-PROFIT
ORGANIZATION WHOSE OBJECTIVE IS TO
HELP OUT THE CURRENT BITS STUDENTS
AND THEY DO SO BY CONDUCTING
CAMPAIGNS. IT PROMOTES
DEVELOPMENT OF ALL THE BITS
CAMPUSES WITH THE FUNDS RAISED
FROM TAKING PART IN VARIOUS
CHARITABLE AND EDUCATIONAL
VENTURES
AFRAID OF EXPRESSING YOURSELF
BECAUSE THEY'LL JUDGE YOU OR MAY
EVEN MOCK YOU? NO WORRIES,
STUDENTS ANONYMOUS AKA SA, A
STUDENT BODY ASSOCIATED WITH NSS
BPHC, IS THERE TO HELP YOU WITH
DIFFICULT TIMES.SA EXISTS AS A
FORUM FOR ANY STUDENT TO EXPRESS
THEIR COMPLAINTS REGARDING ANY
DISCOMFORT, DISCRIMINATION, OR
HARASSMENT AND WILL ALWAYS BE
AVAILABLE TO LISTEN TO ANYONE WHO
MIGHT NEED SOMEONE TO TALK TO.
YOUR IDENTITY WON'T BE REVEALED, SO
YOU CAN COMFORTABLY OPEN UP AND
LIGHTEN UP YOUR MIND
THE STUDENTS' GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL
COMMITTEE (SGRC) CONSISTS OF
PROFESSORS AND A STUDENT
REPRESENTATIVE WHO TAKES NOTE AND
ADDRESSES ANY OF THE GRIEVANCES
STUDENTS FACE ON CAMPUS. IF YOU
HAVE ANY GRIEVANCES, YOU CAN TAKE
THEM UP WITH THE PROFESSORS OR
APPROACH THE STUDENT
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE COMMITTEE
DIRECTLY
STUDENT'S
ANONYMOUS 
SMC
THE STUDENTS' MESS COUNCIL (SMC) IS
THE ORGANIZATION ENTRUSTED WITH
THE VERY IMPORTANT TASKS OF
COMING UP WITH THE MESS MENU,
NEGOTIATING PRICES OF THE PER DAY
MEAL AND ENSURING AN OVERALL
SMOOTH FLOW OF THE MESS(Y)
ACTIVITIES. THEY(OCCASIONALLY) TAKE
FEEDBACK FROM THE GENERAL BODY ON
THE QUALITY OF THE DISHES AND THE
VARIETY OF THE MENU. FACILITIES LIKE
ANC, AND SPECIAL DINNERS ON VARIOUS
OCCASIONS ARE BESTOWED UPON BY
THEM
BITSAA
SGRC
ADSN
THE ADMISSIONS DIVISION STUDENT
NUCLEUS IS THE FIRST STUDENT BODY
TO COMMUNICATE WITH THE INCOMING
BATCH. THEY AIM TO MAKE THE
ADMISSION PROCESS AS SMOOTH AND
EASY AS POSSIBLE. THIS YEAR, THE
ADSN INCLUDES STUDENTS FROM ALL
BATCHES OF THE UNIVERSITY SO THAT
YOU GET ADVICE FROM DIFFERENT
FACETS. THEY ARE WILLING TO ANSWER
ANYTHING, SO DON'T BOTTLE YOUR
DOUBTS. JUST THROW YOUR QUESTIONS
AT THEM.
COMPUTER CENTRE & INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY (CCIT) AT BPHC ENSURES
THAT EVERYONE ON CAMPUS IS
CONNECTED TO THE INTERNET, TO EACH
OTHER, AND TO THE OUTSIDE WORLD.
THE IPC ALSO MAINTAINS FIVE LABS
LOADED WITH UBUNTU AND WINDOWS
AND IS VERY HELPFUL TO STUDENTS
REGARDING ANY ISSUE WITH INTERNET
CONNECTIVITY. THEY ARE OPEN TO
STUDENTS DURING OFFICE HOURS AND
HAVE A 24X7 ONLINE PORTAL, IT CALL
LOG.
CCIT
Fests of BPHC
You can't be in a college and expect not to have fun. As with colleges, BPHC
has its own fair share of fests. They are namely-
Pearl: 
The cultural fest of BPHC. Usually the last official fest of the AY. Color,
joy and vigor usually infests the air during this time. Watch out for the
proshow tickets as they tend to sell out faster than usual. Be sure to join
in the fun with your clubs as working members can get an intime extension
pass and stay outside the hostel past 2 am! Members of cultural clubs will
also get the opportunity to perform on opening night in front of a roaring
home crowd in our auditorium. 
ATMOS: 
Atmos, the first fest every fresher would get to experience, generally is
held in the month of October. This is a fest that gives you a chance to
channel the technical genius in you, ATMOS hosts a myriad of inter-college
technology and management related competitions and group discussions,
where students from across the nation battle to ace. These competitions,
that cover various fields of interest, not only attract a huge number of
participants, but also a large audience, the most prominent ones being
Robowars and Drone racing events. Apart from this, numerous workshops,
open for all, are conducted to help students explore new avenues. ATMOS
is also a platform where prominent leaders from various sectors are
invited to conduct talks. The three days of Atmos are definitely  bound to
make memories for life.
Arena: 
Arena is the most energetic and power-packed fests, BPHC’s annual inter-
college sports fest organized in January, being a super exciting month, with
3 more exciting days for Verba Maximus. It’s a fest where one can enjoy,
both inside the court as a player or outside it and witness thrilling
matches that very often leave you speculating till the very last minute.
ARENA sets up a totally unique atmosphere in the campus, with students
from different colleges exploring it, floodlights livening up the night, a
ton of food stalls set up and people gathering close to keep a watch on the
scoreboards. A place where players bond over games and skills are
chiseled, ARENA is one of the fests that attracts a lot of footfall.
VM: 
Short for Verba Maximus, the unofficial literary fest of BPHC. For
members of ELAS and JC, this is your time to shine. Unlike other fests,
there are no holidays while this fest is being organised, though you will
still see food trucks and a long line for coupons in front of either mess.
Events include both speaking and writing contests, and for those members
that get to work behind the scenes, the lack of stressful work combined
with a lot of goofing around, this patch of spring will rejuvenate your
mind for the upcoming exam season.
Launchpad: 
Launchpad is the annual entrepreneurship summit conducted by E-Cell of
BPHC. An event filled with internship opportunities, events, exciting
workshops and many young entrepreneurs pitching their innovative ideas.
This time they also organized Pitcher's Pilot, an event inspired by
SharkTank, which was a bliss to the eyes. 
Sanskriti:
it is the cultural night of BITS which is conducted by regional assocs.
Interbhawan events happen during the Rixa and Renaissance week which
are sports and cultural competitions respectively.
Hindi diwas, the National Hindi day, which is observed on 14th Sept has
events conducted by Hindi Tarang and also in collaboration with many
other clubs.
Moreover, different regional assocs in the campus conduct different
festivals. To celebrate the contributions and successes of our alums and
faculty, BITSians Day and Teacher's Day are respectively hosted
Deductions and proshows: 
 A few weeks before the fest, the GB will hold a meeting to discuss
the different deductions (800/400/0). While the 0 deduction option
may sound tempting, tread with caution as it also means a smaller
scale fest. It is imperative to also discuss the consequences of a
larger deduction with your seniors. At the end of the meeting,
participants will be allowed to vote for their choice of deduction
and the choice with the most votes will be followed through. 
 As with all fests, notable figures (usually stand up comedians) will
be invited to hold fun activities in the auditoriums. Tickets to these
events can be purchased via your SWD account. Do NOT miss these
events as they are once in a lifetime experiences.
Welcome to BITS Hyderabad, a land of diverse cultures, tired yet
hopeful engineers, and expensive food. Thankfully, the mess services
and food stalls here at BPHC are pretty inclusive and won’t let you feel
left out for the most part. Let’s dig in!
1. Yummpy’s- The oldest, cheapest, and a crowd favourite, yummpy’s is
a go-to place for tons of bored-of-mess-food students. They have a
short menu, serving noodles, sandwiches, (not precisely) biryani and
rice bowls that give you a break from the mess food you will get used
to. Recommended: Chicken fried rice, paneer fried Maggi, Bread-
cheese/masala-omelette, Paneer Makhani rice bowl.
Avoid: Noodles, Sandwiches. 
2. Hotspot- Though famous for selling over two dozen varieties of
Maggi noodles and Maggi pasta, their menu now includes a good
selection of oriental starters, biryani (yes, this one is the actual one),
rolls, (newly introduced) north Indian main-course delicacies, momos,
fries and drinks. A quick stop for students who need caffeine. Drop in
for coffee, good Maggi, and sandwiches before noon, and everything
else thereafter. 
Recommended: Cheese Oregano Maggi, Chicken Tikka sandwich,
Biryani
Avoid: Any fancy things you see on their menu (they are not very good
at those), most drinks (too overpriced for synthetic syrups) 
Food Outlets on Campus
3. Nescafe- Located at one of the prettiest locations at BPHC, Nescafe
serves as a midnight craving saviour for residents of Vishwakarma and
Valmiki bhawans. It won’t take you long to realise that Nescafe is
Hotspot-lite, with the same selection of Maggis, but slightly more pricy
(my friends and I discussed why and we concluded at location luxury
charges). Their menu isn’t very expansive, but they serve what they
mention- Maggis, until 2 am.
Recommended: Fried Maggis, Cheese oregano Maggi, Double Masala
Maggi, Cheese Grilled Toast, Fries.
Avoid: Depends on how much you are willing to spend.
5. Vijay-Vahini Foods: An outlet that has
everything ranging from idlis, puffs and fried rice
to cakes this outlet is located right next to Amul.
With a few tables arranged there, you can often
find small scattered groups around queuing into
the lines to place their orders first. With the food
becoming increasingly oily off late, stick to
standard gravies and rice varieties. This outlet can
also land you a birthday cake for friends if you
place an order beforehand.
Recommended: Paneer/Chicken Puffs,
Paneer/Chicken Hotdog (overpriced), Paneer
Kolhapuri/Kadhayi, Paneer/Chicken Butter
Masala, and Chicken chilly.
Avoid: Burgers; the sweets they sell, they are not
of the best quality and taste you would expect.
Occasionally, the fried rice and side-dishes might
be too oily for tender stomachs.
4. Fruitful: With probably the most hygienic food-
preparation environment on campus, they have
an interesting menu, serving fresh and tasty food
and drinks. They have reasonable prices, and very
cordial owners and staff, but their only problem is
their inconsistency with opening dates and
timings. The selection of cakes, fresh fruit juices,
and snacks attracts exhausted students returning
from the nearby sports fields. 
Recommended: Chicken sandwich (in the pesto-
ish sauce!), Brownie with ice cream, Rolls,
Milkshakes, Fries, and Pav Bhaji.
Avoid: Nothing really; consider yourself lucky if
you find Fruitful open and serving!
6. Wich Please: An outlet that serves exactly what’s
advertised. Sandwiches. It is an entirely vegetarian stall and
serves till late at night. The dishes are fairly priced. The
costlier triple layered sandwiches are worth the cost. 
Recommended: Cheese chilli sandwich, Spinach and corn
sandwich, Vegetable Maggi, Punjabi Tadka Maggi.
Avoid: Italian Pasta sandwich (This shouldn’t be allowed to
stay on the menu).
7. BITSian Pleasant Restaurant and more: A fine dining
restaurant mostly for parties. They serve soups, oriental and
north Indian entrées, main course, delectable kebabs,
biryani, and more. The decor is pleasant to watch. One can
purchase sodas from the refrigerator next to the cashier. A
bit pricey to say the least, but the more people you need to
feed, the better. 
Recommended: A good dinner with friends; food might not
be the best, but it’s good enough to have a nice time;
Barbeque/Authentic Rumali Shawarma, Dahi Puri, Bhel Puri,
Papdi Chaat, Pav Bhaji. Baby corn masala and paneer butter
masala are standard orders.
Avoid: Oriental starters/ soups.
8. Thickshake: Not very polite staff and no fixed schedules
are their only downside. They serve a very vast menu of
really rich thickshakes and milkshakes. From chocolate to
caramel, KitKat to Brownie, and berries to seasonal fruits,
they got all flavours covered. The place is an easy access to
get chips and wafers packs for a quick bite when you’re
returning from classes. As expensive as they are, they do a
great job of maintaining quality and taste.
Recommended: 
Caramel 
Coffee 
Thickshake, 
Berry
Chocolate Thickshake, Brownie Coffee Thickshake.
Avoid: Talking to the guy after 9:30 pm. He gets very cranky
for some reason.
9. Amul: It’s an Amul parlour. They serve Ice-creams, drinks,
and chocolates. EXTREMELY busy during summertime,
when this place basically becomes a necessity to visit.
Happy Eating!
travel
travel
Our campus, which may seem really huge at
first, with you losing your way in the initial
days, will soon seem smaller. You will want
to go out and explore the city more. This will
guide you through both- pre-planned and
last-minute outings.
 
The one bus you should always look out for is bus
212. It is the only bus that comes to the campus gate
and travels to Secunderabad railway station. It is
the most cost-effective option, with a fare of only 35
rupees to go to the nearest metro station (Parade
Grounds). You can check for the bus timings on the
Facebook group (FEG) You can also catch other
buses from Tandoor just outside campus.
Parade Grounds has a metro station that
connects you to the city. Metro accepts
UPI, but keeping cash on hand when going
out is a good idea. GMaps is your best
friend, and always keep track of where
you're going, and where you have to get
off.  
Always look for the time and ensure you
aren’t there for too long. The campus in-
time is 10:30, so plan according to that to
reach on time. At 10:15 pm, the metro
closes, and after 9 pm, cab drivers begin
charging exorbitant rates.  
It's always best to have a trusted cab
driver’s number. That's all you need to
know about travel to and from BPHC. Keep
practising, and who knows your Goa plan
might also come true one day. Happy
travelling!
 MAP CREDITS
TRISHA SESHADRI IYER
 OUR TEAM
ABHAY GOEL
ROHIT PADALA
ARCHITH CASHEEKAR
NIDHI KOLACHANA
TAANVI DAANDE
KAUSHIK VOOLAPALLI
SHRISH KUMAR
ANWAR MUHAMMED
IKSHITA KUMAR
RADHA MYTHRI
MANDEEP NAYAK
TANAY GARDE
GURUPRIYA D
MANAV SHARMA
PRANAV KRISHNA
ANSHUMAN MAHAPATRA
DIVYANSH BISSA
 CREDITS
EDITORS IN CHIEF
ANAND SRINIVASAN
GURUMURTHY V
DESIGNERS IN CHIEF
TRISHA SESHADRI IYER
ISHU GUPTA
COVER CREDITS
 ISHU GUPTA
BLOG
bitshyd.news.blog
FACEBOOK
JournalClubBPHC
INSTAGRAM
@journalclub_bphc
OFFICE BEARERS
 SECRETARY:  SHOUNAK ACHARYA
 JOINT-SECRETARY: ABHAY GOEL
 TREASURER: SRIJA GUDA
MAIL
journal@hyderabad.bits-pilani.ac.in
