Birla Institute of Technology & Science, Pilani Hyderabad Campus

SECOND SEMESTER 2023-2024 Course Handout Part-I

Date: 09-01-2024

In addition to part I (General handout for all courses appended to the timetable) this portion gives further details regarding the course. Course Number : PHY F111 Course Title : MECHANICS, OSCILLATIONS & WAVES Instructor-in-Charge : SUBHADEEP ROY Instructors : P. K. Thiruvikraman, Sankar Davuluri, Rickmoy Samanta, Suvadip Das, Tanay Nag.

Course Description: “Mechanics, Oscillations, and Waves” serves as a fundamental course in physics for science and engineering. This course, consisting of a series of lectures coupled with several demonstrations, provides a good, sound, working knowledge of the following topics: polar coordinates, angular momentum, central force motion, harmonic oscillator, coupled oscillations, waves and wave equation.

Scope & Objective: Newtonian mechanics, the oldest branch of physics, is rather robust and possesses a very solid foundation. The phenomena of oscillations and waves have always been intriguing and are ubiquitous in the world around us. A course on “Mechanics, Oscillations, and Waves” is indispensable to understand other branches of science and engineering and serves as one of the stepping stones for scientific, engineering and medical research and development. The wide-ranging spectrum of subject matter of this course provides a foundation for advanced level physics courses. The objective of this course is to develop good physics problem- solving skills by building a deep conceptual understanding of the subject.

Text Books: 1. An Introduction to Mechanics, by D. Kleppner and R. Kolenkow, Cambridge University Press, Second edition 2021. 2. French, Anthony P French, Vibrations and Waves, CBS, 2003.

Reference Books: 1. Physics Vol I & II, Halliday/Resnick/Krane 5th Edition, John Wiley, 2003. 2. Berkeley Physics Course Volume I, Tata-McGraw Hill. 3. Berkeley Physics course volume III, Tata-McGraw Hill 4. Feynman lectures on Physics, Vol I, Addison-Wesley