Lec. No. 1-3 Learning Objectives Quantum Theory Origin of quantum mechanics; Black Topics to be Covered body radiation, Wavefunction, Uncertainty principle, Schrodinger equation - Simple Applications 4-8 9-12 13 Atomic Structure and Spectra Chemical Bonding: Valence Bond and Molecular Orbital Theories Thermodynamics: the First Law, Internal Energy and Enthalpy Hydrogenic Atoms: Energy levels and Wavefunctions, Orbitals, spectral transitions, many-electron atoms: orbital approximation, Pauli principle, Aufbau principle, term symbols, (simple systems only), selection rule VB Theory: electron pair bond, hybridization, resonance, MO theory: LCAO, bonding and antibonding orbitals, homonuclear and heteronuclear diatomic molecules. Lewis theory and VSEPR model (self-study) Thermodynamic systems, state functions, thermal equilibrium and temperature, work, internal energy and heat transfer, heat capacity. 14-15 Thermodynamics: the Second Law, Entropy, Gibbs Energy Natural and reversible processes, entropy and second Law, Calculation of entropy changes, absolute entropies, Gibbs energy. Learning Outcomes of the Lectures Relate the need for quantum theory. Define and consolidate new concepts to be used in quantum mechanics. Apply quantization of states and zero-point energy in simple systems. Identify the atomic orbital picture of H-atom from quantum mechanics; spin orbit coupling and atomic term symbols. Identify spin as another coordinate. Demonstrate successful description of chemical bond; examine the application of molecular orbital theory to diatomic molecules. Recall Lewis theory and VSEPR model. Comprehend the concept of energy; compare reversible and irreversible processes (work done), classify and compare influence of temperature and pressure on thermodynamic functions, illustrate bomb type calorimeter. Demonstrate understanding of key concepts related to the second law of thermodynamics, including alternative statements of the second law. Discuss energy transfer in the context of thermodynamics, differentiate between the entropy of system, surroundings and universe, calculate reversible and irreversible processes (heat); evaluate entropy changes accompanying expansion, heating, phase transition, define third law of thermodynamics, estimate the standard reaction entropy and statistical entropy, spontaneity of a process in a closed system - concept of Gibbs free energy thermodynamic functions, the changes. Compare Chapter in the Text Book T1 12.1-12.7, 12.9 (7A, 7B, 7C, 7E) T1 13.1-13.11, 13.17- 13.19. (8A, 8B, 8D) 13.15-13.16 (8C) T1 14.1-14.14 (9A, 9B, 9C) T1 2.1-2.9 (2A, 2B, 2C, 2D) T1 4.1-4.13 (3A, 3B, 3C, 3D)